## WebAppSec WG - 2019-07-16

Present: mkwst, terrioda, jumde, weiler, iclelland, gmaone, wseltzer, dveditz, ArturJanc, ckerschb, koto, estark, francois, freddyb, ...

**Agenda**: https://github.com/w3c/webappsec/blob/master/meetings/2019/2019-07-16-agenda.md

### Minutes

* Approve last call's minutes: https://github.com/w3c/webappsec/blob/master/meetings/2019/2019-05-14-minutes.md
  * Approved.

### Agenda Bashing?

* CSP Next?

/me bashes the term "bashing", some people prefer "gardening"


### Administrivia

* Video


dveditz: I didn't pick anything. Do folks actually want to use video? I've enjoyed some meetings where I could see people. Choices are WebRTC-style client. Meet works in Firefox and Chrome. Zoom: Mozilla might be able to host meetings (requires external app, does work on Mobile). Jitsi. If anyone has a preference/objection to these apps

terrioda: Might not be the best week to propose Zoom (given their security announcements)

wseltzer: WebEx supports video.

dveditz: Which version of WebEx do we have access to? WebRTC, or native client?

weiler: Pretty sure we can do both.

dveditz: WebRTC is nice. No downloaded client.

gmaone: Jitsi is nice. Just send out a link, ready to go.

mkwst: not hearing strong preference. If the W3C version of WebEx supports webrtc let's try adding that, and if it doesn't let's try Jitsi.

* [TPAC](https://www.w3.org/2019/09/TPAC/schedule.html)

mkwst: TPAC is coming. We have a day and a half. We have some documents that haven't moved much recently; would be useful to figure out how we can move them forward.
but that's backwards looking,  I'd like to look ahead as well
e.g. estark's ideas on Mixed Content
freddyb's work on SRI
other ideas like CSP next
Some work has moved in WICG and WHATWG as well
we should keep abreast and give feedback
Feedback, consider role of TAG and other parts of W3C community
Sounds as though TAG may be a bit overwhelmed, may want to push work to WGs with expertise. 
How do we think security review ought to work?
Important to give folks feedback on a timely manner. We might want to discuss with PING.

mkwst: other ideas? I'd like to gather ideas in a doc for collaborative editing.

ArturJanc: +1 reviews aspect. If we have time to think about and participate more in reviews of features coming from other WGs, that would be useful. Non-security developers don't always realize that even small changes can have real impact on the security of the platform. We understand the overall security posture, we have give good feedback.
...: Another thing to think about is deprecation. There are many quirks in the platform that have existed for a while. Vendors have pushed on things in the past. Perhaps a coordinated approach would be reasonable. DOM clobbering, `document.domain`, things that aren't required for modern apps. Making the platform saner in the long run is a good topic.

wseltzer: If it would be helpful to meet with other groups, the team can help coordinate those meetings. If you're at TPAC for the Plenary (Wed), think about breakouts that we can organize with other folks. They're great.

mkwst: please attend the plenary day.

terrioda: Also +1 the reviews aspect. I was working with Web of Things team. Need security review to move forward. We're blocking progress by not having security reviews. It's not traditionally this group's responsibility, but it's a problem.
...: Also, PING did have a conversation about "What would you do if you could redesign things from the ground up." Might be a good conversation, perhaps to have in conjunction with PING.


### Fetch Metadata

* [Call for exclusions](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-webappsec/2019Jun/0013.html)
* [FPWD published](https://www.w3.org/TR/fetch-metadata/)

mkwst: Update. we published FPWD. Please send the call for exclusions to your lawyers.
...: shipping in chrome 76, in beta now. Play with it! Artur, can you share with us?

Artur: We're waiting for data from chrome stable. More to say next meeting. Promising data so far from opted-in users and beta; application can lock down their endpoints from cross-site access. ~90%. We're hopeful it helps apps minimize attack surface. Question to Moz: I heard from Anne that you needed web platform tests. what specifically?

dveditz: I don't know. We've got it on our roadmap. Maybe implementing by the end of the year? It's on our plans, just not immediate.

artur: If there's anything missing, I'd like to add it, or change the spec. Just making sure y'all aren't blocked on something we can fix.

dveditz: Happy with the spec as-is. Not sure if we can surface the user interaction bits where we need them. Not a problem with the spec.

mkwst: re WPT, we have pretty robust coverage of the usual stuff, links, navigation. but still long-tail edge cases, CORS-preflight. If there are things where you expect differences among browsers, please write tests or point us there to write tests. would be helpful to know about those challenges to ensure interop.


### Security Reviews

weiler: Here's what I see as broken right now: I'm not getting the requests for reviews. I have a pool of volunteer doc reviewers, and I would be asking more folks to volunteer, but I'm not getting requests for reviews. That's something we need to fix at a process level. WebAppSec should assume that we will fix that process, and we should decide if we want to do reviews in a different way / have this WG involved.

mkwst: getting some feedback from TAG that [we may be overwhelming them]

weiler: Things are getting too cooked in WICG. By the time they get to PING, folks are reluctant to change.

mkwst: chromium project wants to send to TAG at intent to implement; we need to find the right rate compromise

dveditz: moz campaign to change intent to implement to intent to experiment, so as not to imply final form. [Exposure Guidelines](https://wiki.mozilla.org/ExposureGuidelines)

mkwst: chromium has an intent-to-experiment which is different, origin trials. Various projects need to work through the communication bikeshed.


### SRI Spec Maintenance

* [fbraun@'s email](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-webappsec/2019Jul/0002.html)

mkwst: Freddy sent mail a bit ago suggesting they wanted to extend SRI a bit. Nothing much has changed since we published v1. One change was removing `require-sri-for`, not clear what other changes people want

freddy: to expand on my email, definitely wanted to remove the part that's not going anywhere, and see what other people want. Would be valuable to find someone in the group to drive SRI forward. I can work in a supportive role, but can't do that myself.

mkwst: SRI 1.0 was intentionally slim to see if it's a useful feature. Thus, there is obvious future work (merkle-tree hashing for larger resources, signature integration, other html elements). There are also some bugs in Chrome's SRI support. Anyway, would be nice if we could figure something out for the future.

weiler: Anyone want to take over?

terrioda: I'll check whether I can do that.

freddy: Great! I'm happy to fill you in if you can help!


### COOP / COEP

* [Cross-Origin Opener Policy](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1zDlfvfTJ_9e8Jdc8ehuV4zMEu9ySMCiTGMS9y0GU92k/edit)
* [Cross-Origin Embedder Policy](https://mikewest.github.io/corpp/)
* [aaj@'s explainer](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1zDlfvfTJ_9e8Jdc8ehuV4zMEu9ySMCiTGMS9y0GU92k/edit)

mkwst: Read [Artur's explainer](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1zDlfvfTJ_9e8Jdc8ehuV4zMEu9ySMCiTGMS9y0GU92k/edit); it explains why you should care about either of those docs. Combo of the two mechanisms gives us tools to support e.g. shared arraybuffer and APIs with interesting timing, speculative execution. 
Let's talk more at TPAC, it's a fundamental rethink of our threat model.


### Referrer Policy & `Origin` Header

* [annevk@'s email](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-webappsec/2019Jul/0006.html)

mkwst: Anne sent email ^. Spawned an email thread. Francois suggested limitation

dveditz: We should be consistent between CORS and `no-cors` requests. I have an opinion, but we should be consistent, regardless of the decision.

artur: I like the `origin` header. Gives developers useful information about where the request is coming from. I understood dveditz' preference to be to hide the header for CORS requests as well. We discussed sending the `origin` header all the time always, which is the opposite direction. Benefits and drawbacks to both.

mkwst: Take comments/feedback to the thread.

### Origin Policy

mkwst: quick update. Spoke with Moz folks

ckerschb: Prototyping Origin Policy. Working through CSP and referrer policy. Looking at the CORS bits. Still haven't touched caching or baseline. Hopefully at the end of the internship (10 weeks) we'll have a prototype implementation.

artur: Woohoo!

mkwst: hoping for contributions on the spec. Feedback on where the current design doesn't work well. I look forward to multiple implementations. I think this is an important missing primitive. Thanks!


### Reporting API

* [Mozilla's feedback](https://github.com/w3c/reporting/issues/158)

mkwst: feedback in gh^. Seems to me another important primitive that other specs can build upon. Important to get right. We need to give WebPerf feedback on that spec and implementations. Chrome has an implementation. WebAppSec depends on report-to directive; I'd like for us to be able to depend on other things there too, not invent our own. Get the privacy and security aspects right once.
useful for us to look at Moz feedback and stay engaged in that conversation so the mechanism works for us long-term.

jumde: re: `Reporting API` has been used by tracking requests. PING will be opening an issue about that in the github repo soon.

mkwst: look forward to PING's feedback. Get it right in the spec and implementations so it's right for all users

### CSP Next

https://github.com/mikewest/csp-next

mkwst: Argument this doc makes is that CSP has grown, while most people use only a subset and you need to use flags to limit. Artur's group has done a good job documenting. I tried to lay out the kinds of things CSP is used for, so we can build something that helps people with injection-protection, confinement. I'd especially appreciate feedback re confinement. 
Scripting-policy, takes the good stuff out of CSP and puts into format intended to be clearer to developers. 
good place to integrated trusted types. a policy that allows you to control scripts on your pages. limit what you put into those policies. 
Confinement. keeping your origin clean by only allowing devs to load things from trusted servers. Think we can do better than current CSP. 
nothing new just repackaging what CSP has today. 

mkwst: cognizant that CSP exists today and is in all browsers. So while I want to nuke it all from orbit, it also might be a bad idea. What's in your minds?

terrioda: +1 the whole idea. Doing research into why folks don't use CSP: #1 is "It's complicated, and I don't have time to figure it out." That ease of use might get us more than we're expecting.
...: Question I had is, how likely is it that we could support this as a layer on top of CSP? Could have them in parallel, then drop CSP?
...: Brad Hill talked about a CSP-lite?

mkwst: an old proposal I wrote a layer on top of CSP. fine for most, but there are pieces to revisit. Hashes with attributes, @@. Reluctant to bind ourselves to all the old choices. Yet as an implementer, reusing the same pathways is cleaner. 
We never got a good way of controlling `<script type="module" ...>` execution, WASM integration

terrioda: invite some WASM folks in @TPAC to hear what they'd want from integration

dveditz: feel free to send feedback to ML
