# Introduction #


Date/Time:   2010 Wednesday, 18 August 2010
> 　　　　　　From 00:00:10 UTC to 00:00:45 UTC

Attendees:
  * Ryoji AKIMOTO
  * Shu Tanabe
  * Kyoji Tahara
  * Brady Duga
  * Cho Ching Lu
  * Karen Broome
  * Kenny Lu
  * Takeshi Kanai
  * Yoshinori Nagai
  * MURATA Makoto (Coordinator)
  * Phobos Chang
  * Tommy Lee

Scribe: Murata

## 1. Adoption the agenda. ##

The proposed agenda was adopted.

## 2. Review of the minutes and log in Sapporo ##

Karen explained the current status of the minutes and log files.
The log files have been reviewed by the Sapporo attendees for
one week and we decided to announce it to the WG today.  But
the minutes have not been reviewed yet.  After one week review,
we will announce it to the entire WG.

## 3. Review of action items ##

ACTION ITEM: Confirm meeting on August 17?

Done

ACTION: Tanabe-san to provide data to EGLS on this topic (use of
> user-defined characters or glyphs)

Pending.  Expected to be finished in September.

ACTION: Create wiki page describing these options.  (CSS3 relations)

Done.  Brady volunteered to improve it, before we disclose this
wiki page to the entire WG and invite contributeions.

ACTION: Send "sort title" requirement to Metadata Subgroup.

Pending: Murata partially did, but Kanai-san is going to submit more
requirements to the metadata subgroup.

## 4. Status of requirements ##

Requiements from different sources have to be merged, ranked
and sent to the entire WG by September 27.

http://code.google.com/p/epub-revision/wiki/Timeline#August_27:_Subgroup_implementation_proposals:_start

Merged but not-yet-ranked requirement groups
> Line Breaking Rules
> http://code.google.com/p/epub-revision/wiki/EGLS_requirement_list#Line_Breaking_Rules
> > Ruby and Emphasis Dots

> http://code.google.com/p/epub-revision/wiki/EGLS_requirement_list#Ruby_and_Emphasis_Dots
> > Characters or glyphs

> http://code.google.com/p/epub-revision/wiki/EGLS_requirement_list#Characters_or_glyphs

Not-yet-merged requirement groups
> Page Progression Direction
> Kanai-san sent a draft to Voyager, and they are still reviewing it.

> Vertical Writing (MURATA and Kenny)
> Murata and Kenny will have to take care of this by the deadline September 27.

> Mixed Text (MURATA)
> Murata will take care of this soon.

> Others (Murata)
> Murata will take care of this soon.

Each member of the sub-group is requrested to evaluate each of the
requirements using the Conboy system.  Kenny volunteered to collect
inputs from sub-group members, and send it to the coordinator.

http://code.google.com/p/epub-revision/wiki/Process#Prioritization_scheme


## 5. Future meetings (both F2F and teleconf) ##

Details of the next F2F and teleconf will be discussed off-line later,
but the current idea is:

> F2F: Between October 4 and 8, Taipei
> Teleconf: Mid September, probably 15th.

## 6. Misc ##

There was a short report by Tommy about the Taiwanese event yesterday.
Some companies have developed proprietary extensions of EPUB for
addressing the requirements discussed in the Sapporo meeting.