JOINED: [MeetBot](MeetBot.md) [2010/07/07 13:58:15]

JOINED: [BillMcCoy](BillMcCoy.md) [2010/07/07 13:58:32]

[BillMcCoy](BillMcCoy.md) meetbot, set scribe BillMcCoy

Scribe is now BillMcCoy

JOINED: [Kyoji](Kyoji.md) [2010/07/07 13:58:45]

QUIT: [mohawk](mohawk.md) [2010/07/07 13:59:01]

JOINED: [jtallent](jtallent.md) [2010/07/07 13:59:29]

PART: [jstallent](jstallent.md) [2010/07/07 13:59:36]

JOINED: [kenny\_j](kenny_j.md) [2010/07/07 13:59:42]

JOINED: [SteveKotrch](SteveKotrch.md) [2010/07/07 14:00:12]

JOINED: [karenbroome](karenbroome.md) [2010/07/07 14:00:56]

JOINED: [marisa\_demeglio](marisa_demeglio.md) [2010/07/07 14:00:57]

JOINED: [shu](shu.md) [2010/07/07 14:00:58]

JOINED: [karenbroome_] [2010/07/07 14:00:59]_

JOINED: [Takeshi](Takeshi.md) [2010/07/07 14:01:02]

JOINED: [AdamWitwer](AdamWitwer.md) [2010/07/07 14:01:07]

JOINED: [ChoChin](ChoChin.md) [2010/07/07 14:01:30]

QUIT: [karenbroome](karenbroome.md) [2010/07/07 14:01:35]

JOINED: [duga](duga.md) [2010/07/07 14:01:48]

JOINED: [BillKasdorf](BillKasdorf.md) [2010/07/07 14:01:49]

JOINED: [mikesmith](mikesmith.md) [2010/07/07 14:02:01]

[MURATA](MURATA.md) Today, sound quality is not so good.

[MURATA](MURATA.md) I can't hear very well

QUIT: [ChoChin](ChoChin.md) [2010/07/07 14:02:36]

JOINED: [liza](liza.md) [2010/07/07 14:02:36]

[mgylling](mgylling.md) MURATA, sorry to hear that, others say they can hear at least me OK

JOINED: [awiles](awiles.md) [2010/07/07 14:03:48]

JOINED: [Dan](Dan.md) [2010/07/07 14:03:52]

JOINED: [matclutter](matclutter.md) [2010/07/07 14:04:21]





## general topics ##

Markus: previous minutes - accept?

JOINED: [gc](gc.md) [2010/07/07 14:04:56]

Markus: prev action item review - one pending which was for Mike Smith

JOINED: [ChoChin](ChoChin.md) [2010/07/07 14:05:31]

Mike: IDPF IP policy - para 5 has section "no confidential relationship" (reads)

[mgylling](mgylling.md) All material presented to IDPF or its Working Groups or Committees shall be deemed of a non-confidential nature and therefore are for public distribution.  Except as may be separately agreed in writing, the deliberations of the IDPF Plenary Body, Working Groups, Subgroups and Committees shall not be confidential.  Disclosure of any trade secrets or other confidential information in the course of participation will not be subject to any obligation

[mgylling](mgylling.md) confidentiality or nondisclosure on the IDPF or other participants.  All are cautioned not to disclose any information that they wish to maintain in confidence.  These policies do not preclude any Member or representative from entering into separate confidentiality agreements with other participants in IDPF.

JOINED: [danielweck](danielweck.md) [2010/07/07 14:07:34]

JOINED: [Ryoji\_Akimoto](Ryoji_Akimoto.md) [2010/07/07 14:07:34]

JOINED: [John](John.md) [2010/07/07 14:08:12]

MikeS: so you should not give out confidential information

George: we recognize that people have confidential disclaimers that they have no control over, but will refrain from providing truly confidential information to the WG

JOINED: [Mei-Li] [2010/07/07 14:10:34]

BillK: easier for IDPF to get legal advice that our policy is sufficient, vs. trying to address legal issues on behalf of each member

ACTION: George to get legal counsel on this issue

Brady: the most clear legal course of action is to not put message on emails, but this is putting burden on IDPF to resolve your legal issues

Peter: without legal opinion it will stay murky

Markus: moving on...

Markus: requirements collection has started... chair group has put together a first set of guidelines on how to write requirements (linked from agenda)

Markus: intent is by end of month to have stabilized requirements submitted to the group as a whole, they should be reasonably equally formed so we can help understand them

Markus: these are not about being overzealous but to make our jobs easier down the road

JOINED: [Hadrien](Hadrien.md) [2010/07/07 14:13:25]

Markus: we should be discussing the way we do our requirements on the email list, particularly subgroup coordinators should have a good grasp

Markus: briefly running through the list...

Markus: (scribing lightly as it's on the Wiki page)

PRESENT: Roger Sperberg

[danielweck](danielweck.md) Remark: Markus' audio is cutting on my end.

[karenbroome](karenbroome.md) Cutting out for me too. I am dialed into the regular conference line. Not on Skype.

Markus: reviewing rich media group - RM10 should be broken up into individual requirements (compound requirements need to be separated out)

Markus: requirements should be atomic (singular)

Brady: don't think it's necessary to flesh out requirements on the Wiki, if you have an idea but not the time to e.g. come up with use cases, go ahead, we will make sure they meet criteria in the process of subgroup discussion

Markus: good point, what we are describing is desired properties of the end phase

Markus: requirements I've written are easy to criticize on these grounds so I'll probably start editing mine soon to bring them in line





## timeline ##

Markus: how much panic do we need to have?

July 23 is submission date from subgroups

Markus: roughly 2 weeks left





## subgroup status reports ##





## annotations ##

[jtallent](jtallent.md) Is there any way to mute phone?

Markus: regrets from WillM, wiki is progressing





## EGLS ##

[BillKasdorf](BillKasdorf.md) Makoto is very quiet and hard to hear

[jtallent](jtallent.md) can't hear Makoto

Makoto: (could not be heard)

Makoto: I'm the only person who has submitted requirements, please other members submit requirements, every member please

Makoto: Sapporo meeting: we wil have Taiwanese and Japanese, but would like more members from other countries, please register if you intend to join

[mgylling](mgylling.md) Makoto also mentioned the importance of getting input from non-CJK locales

Makoto: Agenda is not finalized but apart from reviewing requirement we will probably study vertical writing w/ CSS and user-defined characters, if you are interetsed please come to Sapporo meeting

Makoto: if you have more topics please let me know

[ChoChin](ChoChin.md) Makoto: Taiwan will send our requirements to you as soon as possible.

George: no one from Korea or China yet?

Makoto: don't know at this stage

Makoto: no members from Korea or China in this WG right now, correct?

[Norm](Norm.md)has to step away for a few minutes. Back as quick as I can. (action)

George: MikeS, can you send invites to members from China & Korea inviting them to this meeting?

QUIT: [Norm](Norm.md) [2010/07/07 14:26:38]

ACTION: MikeS to send invites to members from China & Korea, w/ links to Wiki etc.

George: please cc: Makoto

QUIT: [Mei-Li] [2010/07/07 14:27:22]

MikeS: did you get requirements from Voyager

Shiohama (sp?): yes we are on the call, we are preparing requirements and will submit by early next week





## metadata ##

BillK: we have 24 members and counting, broad representation inc. invited experts who have agreed to participate, lots of intersecting metadata initiatives w eneed to take into account

BillK: good initial meeting yesterday

BillK: still gathering background info on these initiatives to level set w/ BIFA, BIC, ONIX 3, TEI, etc.

BillK: so both high-level discussion and background, haven't yet moved to compiling requirements

[MOlenick](MOlenick.md) BIFA should be BISAC

BillK: I participated in IDEAlliance WG call re: update to PRISM, so will (w/ DianneK) work to keep these in synch

George: on call yesterday and plan to be on next call, and could update group on IP policy and antitrust items because many folks on call were not at prev metings an dma not know our policies

BillK: excellent

BillK: 8 invited experts total (strategic - tend to be exec dirs of relevant orgs)

JOINED: [Mei-Li] [2010/07/07 14:31:56]

any non-English-speaking parallel orgs?

BillK: good point, all our participation is from US/Canada/EU

subect classifications can be cultural/linguistic so raising the topic

BillK: ONIX 3.0 standard does accomodate international standards, enumerating explicitly, so won't be ignored whether there is rep or not

prev was Karen





## navigation ##

George: reviewed reqs there, look OK, so please people review it - Markus maybe you & I can review wrt use cases etc.

Markus: parallel discussion wrt video in HTML for structural semantics not just time slider, they are pointing at NCX as example of technology to use

Markus: may have connections to rich media as well

Markus: repeating call for participants - please help work on global/local navigation (rich media in particular) please contact George

George: "local navigation" means after you move to chapter/sections/subsection, and you need to navigate to next paragraph etc., this is normally just a byproduct of how reading system interacts w/ the content

BillK: same issue in metadata wrt interest in attaching metadata at arbitrarily granular levels





## text content ##

[Hadrien](Hadrien.md) Hum

Markus: announcement earlier this week that rough reqs have been posted to wiki

[Hadrien](Hadrien.md) Navigation could work locally using link@tel=next/previous too

[Hadrien](Hadrien.md) not just an NCX

[Hadrien](Hadrien.md) link@rel, sorry

Markus: written to reflect perceived collective state of our minds, therefore focusing primarily on HTML5 issues and browser renderering, nothing yet about extensibility

Markus: nothing yet about domain specific semantics, etc. so lots of work remains to be done

Markus: details of mathematics remains to be included as well

Markus: PeterS adding comments, so please go over the wiki page consuming comments & start discussing the questions raised either on wiki page or on the email list

Markus: Peter is raising several important points

Markus: group will have first call next week, invites tmw or Fri

Markus: but please don't hit brakes, move on w/ comments, global and detail level...

ACTION: Markus, send email to list w/ subgroup coordinator emails

[Hadrien](Hadrien.md) I'll publish comments tomorrow for text





## styling & layout ##

Brady: several requirements added, PeterS has added, encourage others to add

Brady: noticed some have been modified, that's great, if you want to add rationales, use cases, etc. please go ahead

Brady: please don't change original intent though

Brady: one comment, that's OK, but I think you will get better response with email w/ [style](style.md) tag and reference req #, so it will be in folks faces

Brady: but comments inline are fine too, but email may encourage more discussion





## interactivity & rich media ##

Peter: making good progress, mostly from one person but seems to be very good

Peter: more interest in rich media part, but we actually have interactivity as in some respects a harder problem, so please try to formulate what we want to solve w/ interactivity, as it is a very open-ended topics and we need to scope it out somehow

Markus: interactivity seems to be a classic example of when one should start with serious amount of scenario descriptions and use cases... "open ended" is a very diplomatic description

Peter: use cases may be good starting point, but people are saying they want to embed HTML5 web apps in their EPUBs, which is pretty much a clear-cut solution

Peter: it is not clear that we are going to get more than that, but you need a way to author, an ecosystem around it, there are not many solutions which satisfy these and we cannot invent our own

JOINED: [goldnsc](goldnsc.md) [2010/07/07 14:43:54]

Peter: in some respects it may be counter-productive to stick to requirements stage, but we can try

Markus: from DAISY perspective testing is a big requirement from education

Markus: we have other options besides HTML5, like XForms

Peter: XForms is basically dea

Markus: well, yes





## advertisements ##

Markus: still no coordinator

Markus: I think we should try to decide what to do or give ourselves an aggressive deadline for decision

Garth: concern is lack of coordinator plus perhaps lack of critical mass, perhaps we ought to let it defer for a while while we have so much else going on

Garth: Markus: perhaps holes for ads could be part of rich media / interactivity, but I tend to lean towards Darwinian approach

[karenbroome](karenbroome.md) (there's some music coming through on the line. Mute if you're not speaking.)

RogerS: WillM and I are the only two people aside from DianneK who've expressed intention to belong. We've had enough time to put requirements on the table, but we can't take on coordinator role

RogerS: perhaps if there was a coordinator sending notices out, perhaps people with interest would join

Roger: I think you can get some material from Will & myself

RogerS: you said some issues will be decided by entire group, and not everything is in one or the other subgroup, I think there's questions about dynamic updating of content that are crosss-cutting, opssibly also under category of interactivity, but will be of interest to a lot more peoplep than have acked so far

RogerS: I don't think you want to drop from agenda if we don't get ad people jumping in

Markus: certainly there are many potential deployments of such features well beyond ads

Markus: but we will be fooling ourselves to say dynamic updates = ads, but we need to flesh out the needed functionality

RogerS: we definitely do not have the expertise to solve advertising's issues, but they have said they will prefer to defer decisions until later in the year

QUIT: [matthaas](matthaas.md) [2010/07/07 14:54:03]

QUIT: [Hadrien](Hadrien.md) [2010/07/07 14:54:57]

[DaveGunn](DaveGunn.md) Should we invite an organisation like the International Advertising Association www.iaaglobal.org (from google search)?

Garth: maybe dynamic nature of ads flowing in could be in purview of ad subgroup, but ads at creation time is purview of other groups

Garth: late vs. early placement is another line to draw

BillM: agree

[karenbroome](karenbroome.md) I have contacts at the AAAA. They do Ad-ID, which might be useful at some point.

[karenbroome](karenbroome.md) (American group, but Ad-ID is used globally.)

BillK: from IDEAlliance meeting, they are looking to EPUB to handle styling and layout

Markus: other business?

Daniel from DAISY: PeterS mentioned interactivity material is needed, should this be separated into its own wiki page to give it more importance?

Daniel: I do think interactivity and rich media are not the same

[gc](gc.md) Lets at least continue joint requirements gathering.

Peter: fine merged, but certainly if people are interested in one but not the other we could split it, not sure if this would be true

Peter: technically it might be true, but from business requirements maybe not (if they care about one they are about the other)

Peter: might be good to join ads

[LizaDaly](LizaDaly.md) I agree about splitting out into a new wiki page, but let's keep the groups together for now

Markus: why don't you begin by asking subgroup what they are interested in?

QUIT: [awiles](awiles.md) [2010/07/07 15:03:27]

Markus: we can think offline about the potential merge (of ads into rich media & interactivity)

QUIT: [SteveKotrch](SteveKotrch.md) [2010/07/07 15:03:55]

QUIT: [kenny\_j](kenny_j.md) [2010/07/07 15:03:57]

QUIT: [John](John.md) [2010/07/07 15:03:59]

Markus: goodbye

PART: [MOlenick](MOlenick.md) [2010/07/07 15:04:01]

QUIT: [LizaDaly](LizaDaly.md) [2010/07/07 15:04:05]

QUIT: [Dan](Dan.md) [2010/07/07 15:04:06]

Scribe, list actions

QUIT: [KingWai](KingWai.md) [2010/07/07 15:04:09]

[Mei-Li] bye all

PART: [ShuTanabe](ShuTanabe.md) [2010/07/07 15:04:12]

QUIT: [DaveGunn](DaveGunn.md) [2010/07/07 15:04:15]

QUIT: [Kyoji](Kyoji.md) [2010/07/07 15:04:17]

QUIT: [ChoChin](ChoChin.md) [2010/07/07 15:04:19]

scribe, list attendees

QUIT: [marisa\_demeglio](marisa_demeglio.md) [2010/07/07 15:04:21]

[golderic](golderic.md) quit

PART: [mikesmith](mikesmith.md) [2010/07/07 15:04:32]

QUIT: [Mei-Li] [2010/07/07 15:04:34]

[MURATA](MURATA.md) Bye

PART: [golderic](golderic.md) [2010/07/07 15:04:36]

PART: [BillKasdorf](BillKasdorf.md) [2010/07/07 15:04:42]

PART: [Ryoji\_Akimoto](Ryoji_Akimoto.md) [2010/07/07 15:04:43]

meetbot, list attendees

Takeshi, Dan, mikesmith, DaveGunn, karenbroome_, goldnsc, jtallent, gc, karenbroome, John, liza, ChoChin, duga, Kyoji, Norm, matthaas, mohawk, BillMcCoy, marisa\_demeglio, George, kenny\_j, KingWai, AdamWitwer, danielweck, awiles, MOlenick, MURATA, shu, NeilS, Hadrien, matclutter, Ryoji\_Akimoto, Roger Sperberg, SteveKotrch, Mei-Li, mgylling, jstallent, BillKasdorf_

PART: [MURATA](MURATA.md) [2010/07/07 15:04:51]

meetbot, list actions

ACTION: George to get legal counsel on this issue

ACTION: MikeS to send invites to members from China & Korea, w/ links to Wiki etc.

ACTION: Markus, send email to list w/ subgroup coordinator emails

QUIT: [AdamWitwer](AdamWitwer.md) [2010/07/07 15:04:55]

meetbot, leave