JOINED: [MeetBot](MeetBot.md) [2010/07/14 13:47:08]

Channel Topic: EPUB IRC main chat

JOINED: [BillMcCoy](BillMcCoy.md) [2010/07/14 13:47:30]

[BillMcCoy](BillMcCoy.md) meetbot, set scribe BillMcCoy

Scribe is now BillMcCoy

JOINED: [BLarroque](BLarroque.md) [2010/07/14 13:52:22]

JOINED: [KingWai](KingWai.md) [2010/07/14 13:53:32]

JOINED: [Norm](Norm.md) [2010/07/14 13:53:39]

JOINED: [MOlenick](MOlenick.md) [2010/07/14 13:53:48]

JOINED: [Kyoji](Kyoji.md) [2010/07/14 13:55:42]

JOINED: [RogerWebster](RogerWebster.md) [2010/07/14 13:56:21]

JOINED: [matthaas](matthaas.md) [2010/07/14 13:57:02]

JOINED: [keith\_fahlgren](keith_fahlgren.md) [2010/07/14 13:57:35]

JOINED: [Ryoji\_Akimoto](Ryoji_Akimoto.md) [2010/07/14 13:58:00]

JOINED: [DaveGunn](DaveGunn.md) [2010/07/14 13:59:20]

JOINED: [kenny\_j](kenny_j.md) [2010/07/14 13:59:43]

JOINED: [Brady](Brady.md) [2010/07/14 14:00:29]

JOINED: [ChoChin](ChoChin.md) [2010/07/14 14:00:50]

JOINED: [Si-Wei] [2010/07/14 14:01:28]

JOINED: [SteveKotrch](SteveKotrch.md) [2010/07/14 14:01:31]

JOINED: [danielweck](danielweck.md) [2010/07/14 14:01:37]

JOINED: [AdamWitwer](AdamWitwer.md) [2010/07/14 14:01:58]

JOINED: [marisa\_demeglio](marisa_demeglio.md) [2010/07/14 14:02:03]

JOINED: [EricFreese](EricFreese.md) [2010/07/14 14:02:53]

PRESENT: Diane Kennedy

PRESENT: Bill K

PRESENT: Shiohama

JOINED: [MyNick](MyNick.md) [2010/07/14 14:03:23]

JOINED: [awiles](awiles.md) [2010/07/14 14:03:36]

PRESENT: Penguin, Dan Hughes

JOINED: [BillKasdorf](BillKasdorf.md) [2010/07/14 14:03:45]





## maintenance future work items ##

JOINED: [jtallent](jtallent.md) [2010/07/14 14:04:45]

TOPICS: general

Markus: previous minutes - approved

JOINED: [Takeshi](Takeshi.md) [2010/07/14 14:06:00]

JOINED: [George](George.md) [2010/07/14 14:06:16]

Markus: to subgroup coords, have any questions on the issues on the list?

BillK: no, brought up in yesterday's call, they are on our wiki

Brady: not looked yet, but Garth has

JOINED: [NeilS](NeilS.md) [2010/07/14 14:07:20]

JOINED: [gc](gc.md) [2010/07/14 14:07:38]

Makoto: received JEPA, Voyager, and Cemix, and I will review them, and check for overlap

Markus: next Friday is date for initial submission of subgroup requirements, will be followed by global overview to resolve and overlap/conflicts

Markus: but doing it early is good idea

JOINED: [Mei-Li] [2010/07/14 14:09:10]

Markus: surprised to not see NCX in there

Garth: everything made it into 2.0.1

JOINED: [liza](liza.md) [2010/07/14 14:10:20]

Garth: one - id of alternative renditions - put into 2 subgroups

Garth: both metadata and layout, others all fit nicely into 1 subgroup

Markus: dig sig?

Garth: coming up to then-current standards, can be done at drafting time





## subgroup status reports ##

Markus: reminder - first submission next Friday of subgroup requirements set, followed by a week of global analysis/changes. Time is getting short!





## annotations ##

Markus: Will Manis, absent today

Daniel, DAISY: will check list of requirements tomorrow and send comments

Daniel: starting discussion around audio/multimedia annotations

QUIT: [Brady](Brady.md) [2010/07/14 14:15:42]

George: thinking about document that goes out after EPUB is completed, adding an audio reading of poem or something after the fact, delivering as annotation

Marissa: sounds like it'd be good for rich media & interactivity

[marisa\_demeglio](marisa_demeglio.md) echo from Murata, difficult to hear

QUIT: [Norm](Norm.md) [2010/07/14 14:17:25]

Markus: Joshua, for Hebrew does what's in Wiki satisfy?

Joshua: I think so (??? audio unclear)

Makoto: bidi - need more requirements

QUIT: [Mei-Li] [2010/07/14 14:19:22]

Makoto: unless some Arabic persons bring requirements I don't think the subgroup can do anything about it

JOINED: [Mei-Li] [2010/07/14 14:19:34]

Makoto: basicaly only from CJK countries

Makoto: merging should not be difficult, should not require teleconference

Makoto: then F2F meeting in Sapporo, prelim agenda published to Wiki, want to get attendees listed on Wiki, esp since reception on first day planned

Makotoo: EGLS members, please read relevant documents like vert writing from Unicode consortium

[jtallent](jtallent.md) Yes, I think the requirements for Hebrew will be satisfied by the items already mentioned on the EGLS wiki. my only question is about normalization (placement of combining diacriics) -- not sure if that is something the ePub standard should or will discuss

JOINED: [Brady](Brady.md) [2010/07/14 14:22:36]

ACTION: BillK to put Makoto in touch with Hindawi people (Egyption publisher)





## metadata ##

BillK: lots of participation from relevant experts but not much on requirements yet, background info more relevant to solutions, I may have to approach members and "draft" them to contribute reqs

[Mei-Li] Mmakoto: CJKT please!

BillK: I did make a template, the rest of the group may be interested, since reqs are granular there are interdependencies and I put a place for this in my template, may be useful in general





## navigation ##

George: pretty complete set of reqs there

Markus: NCX needs a metadata mechanism, hope to have a more univesal solution





## text layout ##





## text ##

Markus: people working on specific semantics (book, mag, etc.)

Markus: first call had yesterday

Markus: major design problem, establish the optimal relation to HTML5, there's a number of different solutions we're discussing, we'll be meeting again friday, and hope to have Wiki page with summary of where we ended prev call

QUIT: [MURATA](MURATA.md) [2010/07/14 14:28:42]

Markus: core issue is HTML5 will be moving target for longer than we want to be a moving target ourselves, issue how do we stablize grammar that depends on something that's not stable, with consideration to longevity of content that needs to last for decades.

Markus: problem applies to CSS  as well

JOINED: [MyNick](MyNick.md) [2010/07/14 14:29:06]

BillK: any expliict coordination with DAISY?

Markus: it is part of the picture, and happening as we go along. DAISY's hypothesis is to deprecate/remove DTBook and use HTML5 adaptation instead

George: we'd recommend to DAISY that they use a modular XML approach to capture semantics, and transform to EPUB for delivery with semantic mechanisms the WG comes up with, as opposed to using EPUB as authoring environment

George: TEI, DocBook, etc. would be transformed to EPUB

George: James has action item to make sure DTBook semantics are in the requirements for text content

BillK: OK, that was my concern

Markus: also about stricter content models, there are a few elements but the strictness is a key property, we have requirements in text content wiki (so far vague) about ability to express subsets, that's referring to the idea to express a version of HTML that is more strict & stringent

Markus: de-tag-soupify





## formatting & layout ##

Brady: not much has happened yet, will be leaving in Garth's hands while on vacation starting next week

Brady: will kick things off on the list via email, hopefully Garth will have more to report next week

Peter: a little activity on the Wiki, think it will be in shape by end of next week, but more stuff esp on interactivity would be welcome





## interactivity & rich media ##

Markus: you talked about webapp encapsulating most of what we want to accomplish with interactivity, we may have a cross-cutting concern there

Markus: whats the status of scripts in epub-current?

Garth: "should not" execute, "must not" display textual content of script

[liza](liza.md) Are we looking to collect use cases on interactivity?

Markus: question is should we change our position there, which subgroup/subgroups will deal with this?

[liza](liza.md) What would be the most useful contributions to make on the wiki?

RogerW: few comments on interactivity - in conversations with publishers, they are keen to have, they have imagination on this, tough for us to stave off scripting inside EPUB, it's a shift in view, but have to figure out how to embrace in a way that we're comfortable with

Garth: likely to embrace from perspective of encapsulated sub pubs

RogerW: scripting that can affect DOM

Peter: may have requirements that affect pagination of an entire chapter, but this may be in conflict with other requirements like anchoring annotations

Peter: when you allow scripting you can only execute the script, you can't analyze it

[keith\_fahlgren](keith_fahlgren.md) Everyone interested in scripting should review http://code.google.com/p/google-caja/

Peter: so we have a lot of implicit requirements, being able to annotate is one of them, but if scripting is allowed we have to nail them down

Bill: resolve by making requirements explicit, then resolve - we have annotations subgroup, so we will make annotations explicit anyway

KeithF: scripting is a requirement, Liza would be happy to write them up

KeithF: I'm concerned that many objections are similar than those raised to SCRIPT element in HTML2, I don't want to rehash what HTML did

KeithF: concerns from implementators are around support, one is to make sure documents are accessibility, another like Google CHAI

KeithF: attemps to try to ensure that JS doesn't get too much access

KeithF: I believe there's going to be many requirements to manipulate the DOM

KeithF: I'm not sure we should say we're going to exclude some JS component from HTML5 because it's scary

Peter: I don't have a problem with a web app on a page that has scripting, yes we need ot discuss accessiibliyt but that's in scope

[keith\_fahlgren](keith_fahlgren.md) BillMcCoy: Caja

Peter: I'm concerned with being able to script the chapter content, so the script can change the layout of the overall document

Peter: question is whether we should allow scripting everything

Markus: describing the use cases on the Wiki so we can understand more clearly would be useful

Peter: or send it to me

Peter: I don't see allowing changing beyond the small island that the script is assigned to

Roger: scripting that would allow dynamic mod of a paragraph would make it tricky to do annotations, overlays, etc., that's what you're getting at right?

Roger: I'm generally not hearing that, but I haven't heard about that

Garth: scripts that are self-contained would be in scope

ACTION: Roger, Keith, Liza to contribute to Wiki (directly or through Peter)





## advertisement ##

[liza](liza.md) Will do

Bill: my leads have not come through yet

Peter: can take on ads

Bill: rename "rich media, interactivity, and ads" = RIA ;-)

Markus: reminder text content subgroup, 19:00 UTC, this group same time next week

QUIT: [Brady](Brady.md) [2010/07/14 14:52:50]

George: 100714 is recording name

QUIT: [RogerWebster](RogerWebster.md) [2010/07/14 14:52:55]

PART: [keith\_fahlgren](keith_fahlgren.md) [2010/07/14 14:52:58]

QUIT: [kenny\_j](kenny_j.md) [2010/07/14 14:53:02]

QUIT: [BillMcCoy](BillMcCoy.md) [2010/07/14 14:53:08]

QUIT: [AdamWitwer](AdamWitwer.md) [2010/07/14 14:53:08]

QUIT: [KingWai](KingWai.md) [2010/07/14 14:53:09]

QUIT: [liza](liza.md) [2010/07/14 14:53:12]

QUIT: [Kyoji](Kyoji.md) [2010/07/14 14:53:12]

QUIT: [SteveKotrch](SteveKotrch.md) [2010/07/14 14:53:16]

QUIT: [matthaas](matthaas.md) [2010/07/14 14:53:17]

QUIT: [Takeshi](Takeshi.md) [2010/07/14 14:53:18]

QUIT: [gc](gc.md) [2010/07/14 14:53:22]

QUIT: [ChoChin](ChoChin.md) [2010/07/14 14:53:24]

PART: [MOlenick](MOlenick.md) [2010/07/14 14:53:26]

QUIT: [awiles](awiles.md) [2010/07/14 14:53:29]

JOINED: [BillMcCoy](BillMcCoy.md) [2010/07/14 14:53:36]

QUIT: [jtallent](jtallent.md) [2010/07/14 14:53:41]

meetbot, leave