JOINED: [MeetBot](MeetBot.md) [2010/07/28 13:52:31]

JOINED: [BillMcCoy](BillMcCoy.md) [2010/07/28 13:52:43]

[BillMcCoy](BillMcCoy.md) meetbot, set scribe BillMcCoy

Scribe is now BillMcCoy

JOINED: [George](George.md) [2010/07/28 13:53:24]

JOINED: [Alex\_Zu](Alex_Zu.md) [2010/07/28 13:53:36]

JOINED: [matthaas](matthaas.md) [2010/07/28 13:53:37]

JOINED: [gc](gc.md) [2010/07/28 13:54:43]

JOINED: [wmanis](wmanis.md) [2010/07/28 13:56:02]

JOINED: [ShuTanabe](ShuTanabe.md) [2010/07/28 13:56:34]

JOINED: [Ryoji\_Akimoto](Ryoji_Akimoto.md) [2010/07/28 13:57:53]

JOINED: [MyNick](MyNick.md) [2010/07/28 13:58:36]

JOINED: [awiles](awiles.md) [2010/07/28 13:58:43]

JOINED: [SteveKotrch](SteveKotrch.md) [2010/07/28 13:59:10]

[George](George.md) filename is: 100728

JOINED: [mikeidpf](mikeidpf.md) [2010/07/28 13:59:37]

JOINED: [RogerWebster](RogerWebster.md) [2010/07/28 14:00:20]

JOINED: [Kyoji](Kyoji.md) [2010/07/28 14:01:27]

JOINED: [keith\_fahlgren](keith_fahlgren.md) [2010/07/28 14:01:34]

JOINED: [wenhsuan](wenhsuan.md) [2010/07/28 14:02:07]

JOINED: [Si-Wei] [2010/07/28 14:02:22]

[George](George.md) 16 on the phone

JOINED: [ChoChin](ChoChin.md) [2010/07/28 14:03:05]

JOINED: [BillKasdorf](BillKasdorf.md) [2010/07/28 14:03:21]

PRESENT: RogerSperberg

[MikeW3C^]just joined the telcon (action)

JOINED: [Takeshi](Takeshi.md) [2010/07/28 14:04:32]

JOINED: [NeilS](NeilS.md) [2010/07/28 14:04:37]

JOINED: [MEI-LI] [2010/07/28 14:05:32]

Garth: on Wikis, need to start looking at how requirements interact w/ other groups

QUIT: [Norm](Norm.md) [2010/07/28 14:08:38]

Garth: all the CSS stuff from styling/layout, overlap w/ EGLS (likely), vis-a-vis CSS3, so want to coordinate

Garth: poetry - no CSS3 for doing it, so invention would be going on, and if EGLS invention going on would wnat to be consistent

Garth: coordinators pls note interdependency areas

JOINED: [Si-Wei_] [2010/07/28 14:10:54]_

QUIT: [Si-Wei] [2010/07/28 14:10:54]

[gregory](gregory.md) GJR notes CSS Snapshot (css-beijing) in "Last Call" - http://www.w3.org/TR/2010/WD-css-beijing-20100727/

BillK: metadata, lots of comments but no one has indicated they've looked at reqs review, maybe it's a formatting issue?

BillK: please add your name/initials when you add a comment - many are unattributed now

Garth: if owners don't like my choice of place pls feel free to overrule me & move it

WillM: document identity/integrity will require special attention, I have only enough knowledge to be dangerous

WillM: that will have a larger impact than on annotations, if we have doc ids & sigs in the docs themselves

WillM: don't know of any other specific conflicts

JOINED: [Dan](Dan.md) [2010/07/28 14:17:09]

WillM: another issue is focus on data model vs. actual presentation to users

WillM: we aren't spending much time on presentation now

WillM: going forward, issues are developing suggestions for doc IDs & sigs that will not be onerous to users

KeithF: doc ID issue is very directly tied to metadata, I don't think anyone claims to have answer, but at least feel we're moving in harmonized direction about one rec

JOINED: [MikeW3C^] [2010/07/28 14:18:26]





## EGLS ##

Makoto: still collecting reqs, mainly Japan & Taiwan so far

Makoto: reqs biased because we have had few input from Korea, Arabic, & Hebrew, so I will be asking some experts. Mongolian?

Makoto: hopefully we can get more input in August

Makoto: present reqs have not been unified - hope to do in Sapporo F2F so meanwhile reqs not ready for reviewing

Makoto: yesterday, I sent email about Sapporo mtg to all known attendees, if you didn't receive it we don't know that you are coming, and so please let me know ASAP if you are coming

QUIT: [MikeW3C](MikeW3C.md) [2010/07/28 14:21:42]

George: Korea rep in Sapporo?

Makoto: yes, one - Cube (?)

JOINED: [Norm](Norm.md) [2010/07/28 14:21:57]

QUIT: [MURATA](MURATA.md) [2010/07/28 14:22:08]

[mikeidpf](mikeidpf.md) Incube Technologies, Inc.

George: I have Nat. Lib contacts in Korea - I will send email to that person and solicit possible expert participation ASAP

Makoto: I know quite a few SC34 Korea people - they are quite interested in ebooks, and members of Korea assoc for promoting eBooks, so I'm optimistic about receiving comments from Korea

George: my contact is probably not as good

Garth: worth making intro





## metadata ##

BillK: reqs will have relationships w/ other subgroups per WillM/Keith comments

BillK: identifiers will intersect w/ almost everyone else

BillK: doesn't look that we're moving forward productively wrt resolving issues - lots of comments - so looking for guidance

Garth: areas of back and forth - if so perhaps to mailing list? - people may not be following comments

BillK: yes not many in email dialog

ACTION: subgroup coords, when comments go back-and-forth on Wiki pls try to create/move discussion to email list

BillK: many comments are musings that inform thinking but don't push towards conclusions

Garth: esp areas for contention should get moved onto the list

BillK: resolving isn't for subgroup anyway, right?

Garth: true, although I'm of 2 minds a bit - in short run we want WG as a whole to buy in to all reqs, even after it's done there will be reqs that need to be balanced within a subgroup, that would be done by subgroup, then whatever solution is proposed that's brought to the wholre group

Garth: after subgroup has decided it's happy then the WG as a whole would be brought in, best if everyone who has a stake in an issue participates in subgroup so that when it's brought to WG the WG doesn't go "ugh"

KeithF: I don't feel EPUB spec uses the best techniques to allow for extensibility, for things not dreamed up at the time of the spec - impt for metadata but also annotations

KeithF: perhaps all we can ask for is to provide the hooks by which other people may make magic in the future, and perhaps if it will be standardized in the future

KeithF: if we have consensus on this, perhaps we can make it easier for subgroups - making it possible for EPUB to do X or Y vs. solving the problems X & Y perfectly

QUIT: [keith\_fahlgren](keith_fahlgren.md) [2010/07/28 14:29:52]

KeithF: ex from metadata: way to reference metadata from another standard, e.g. ONIX (at least if in US) - but this doesn't mean we have to solve everything in ONIX 3.0 in this revision

KeithF: is such an extensibility goal reasonable or do we have to be completely concrete? I worry that if we don't provide something that is flexible and lives for a longer period I fear we'll be sorry

BillK: those ONIX records change so it's precisely the kind of thing you don't want to lock into a spec

Garth: similarly in 2.0 we locked to a particular DTBook version, which we regretted later

Garth: in ONIX case I think it makes sense for reference to move, but on the other side we may well decide to bundle in MathML but whatever we do extensibility-wise, we have to do conformance tests and we have wildly different veracities of our spec, and are focing coding to particular reading systems

Garth: if we get 2.0 reading systems up to reasonable conformance, there's a tension with extensibility

Garth: what if we throw in ChemML and no one supports it?

Garth: ONIX is a case where you don't do harm if a rS doesn't use it

George: Keith's comment - we want to be able to support innovation in our standard without breaking RS we have right now, I don't know what that can be, but if we can figure out a good way to do it, I'm not sure about other types of innovations

Keith: that's right, this will always be a tension, for reasons pointed out. I don't know that I'm representing consensus of WG when I say this is an important goal but it's a goal I have after getting involved in EPUB which has a limited extensibility model

QUIT: [RogerWebster](RogerWebster.md) [2010/07/28 14:35:40]

Keith: extensibility models come at some risk, the obvious one is the nebulous one of conformance

KeithF: better to be explicit about extensibility model that's supported vs. a totally ad hoc way happen

JOINED: [keith\_fahlgren](keith_fahlgren.md) [2010/07/28 14:36:11]

KeithF: and to be very up front about risks & reqs about anyone doing it - we have goals to prefer declarative content, provide fallbacks, etc.

KeithF: that's something we should make sure someone supporting ChemML does

George: is this captured in reqs?

KeithF: this is part of thinking on interactivity thing, one of Liza's points is that as much as we admire contributors to WG we do not feel we are expert enough to captures reqs of smart people 18 months from now

KeithF: we'd be happier to provide frameworks for them to innovate, vs. being not humble enough and thinking we can solve hte problem now

???: we are defining a data format, there's a format you can express a great deal of richness, w/ class attributes you can take a fairly complex domain and peform a conversion to EPUB

???: if the user agent has EPUB and source code (possibly) it should be able to perform all the transformations

???: I get concerned when we burden a plain reader to handle these specific domains w/out extensibility being moved out of a basic reader

JOINED: [MURATA](MURATA.md) [2010/07/28 14:39:18]

WillM: was prev speaking

RogerS: Will, this is a sound argument, it's been made many times in the past - are there any developers saying this is too much for us?

RogerS: or are people builidng on WebKit etc.

RogerS: we can take graphics languages of a lot of computers (GDI/OpenGL/etc.). Those are data models for expressing things richly on a screen, people build stuff on top of that

WillM: folly that we are going to take it from HTML5 further back

WillM: responsibility of user aget to perform transforms to EPUB space and then back out

George: if we can provide a window for them to do it w/ our blessing we are providing a iway for innovation. So trying to figure out a way to do innovation in a blessed way seems like a good move

George: I don't know how to do it, but trying to identify it as a req would help us preserve the standards

BillK: that cuts across all subgroups

KeithF: that's why I bring it up

KeithF: so I would ask Markus/Garth to figure out how to turn this goal into something concrete that we try to thread through various reqs

[gc](gc.md) Yes, be it a Window or Sandbox or ??? for extensibility.

KeithF: I don't know if it's just coming up w/ a few paragraphs, I trust their judgment, but would be happy to help

KeithF: if there's any objection then we can try to understand and find compromises

PeterS: I agree we should allow room for experiments, and existing spec is somewhat restrictive - you can't add things in your own namespace for example

PeterS: but I would warn about inventing new features in this standardization process - standards work best when you pick existing solution, not inventing

PeterS: if we invent features before implementing, we would either need to wait to finalize standard, we'd need to wait for implementors or it will be broken

[NeilS](NeilS.md) If we say we are using HTML5, you can't use namespaces.  That might work in XHTML5, but I don't know if the current draft even allows them there.

PeterS: when implementing we encounter lots of things, it's better to have spec simpler/quicker and leaving room for experiments, vs. trying to invent new features

WillM: we can specify tests w/ features, if we add too many features the test matrix is beyond belief, so I think if we can say to test the feature that wil help cost estimate

JOINED: [oedipus](oedipus.md) [2010/07/28 14:48:29]

[keith\_fahlgren](keith_fahlgren.md) I agree, noting that I'd rather specify less new features and instead specify a generic mechanism for doing reasonable extensions

QUIT: [gregory](gregory.md) [2010/07/28 14:48:31]

[MURATA](MURATA.md) We might want to adopt OOXML Part 3 (Markup Compatibility and Extensions).

[MURATA](MURATA.md) OOXML Part 3 provides "ignorable namespaces" and "alternate content blocks".

PeterS: just to illustrate specific example, we don't know where the world is moving. One is XML in HTML, we saw this w/ MathML. Another way is microdata, also widely used

PeterS: which we pick? one will be used more widely in future, but too early to tell

[MikeW3C^] I agree with Peter about risk of leaving room for experiments vs. handing vendors the power to easily and unilaterally invent new features

PeterS: scripting - on surface it's understood but there are not too many implementations, so if we say you can script anything, that means you have to add to one of existing 4 layout engines

[MURATA](MURATA.md) MCE of OOXML is intended to allow old implementations to do reasonable things.

PeterS: I have code for good typography so I can't add it to any engine but I can't add it because I don't have the license

PeterS: browser are very complex, much more complex than EPUB rendering

PeterS: by allowing scripting reading you are increasing by a factor of 10 the size

PeterS: did anyone try to run Webkit on iPad? It doesn't run, only what is supplied by Apple, but you can't compile it on your own

PeterS: even if you succeed you can't ship apps w/ downloadable scripts through that means, there is just no other way

PeterS: everything is scriptable means webkit is required

Garth: I think we need to be wary that we do not by our draft specify the single way to implement it that will work

[keith\_fahlgren](keith_fahlgren.md) All I want at this time is consensus on our goals for extensibility.

[keith\_fahlgren](keith_fahlgren.md) I don't feel that finalizing scriptability _solutions_ is a good use of time today

PeterS: you are saying you have to use a browser engine if it has to be scriptable

WillM: scripting can be useful, allowing scripting to help perform transformations

PeterS: I floated what I think is a reasonable compromise - scriptability in a rectangle (IFRAME/OBJECT) - scripts run inside it.

Garth: "Window" vs. a sandbox (IFRAME) vs. some yet to be defined mechanisms (for managed scripting)

Peter: it would be interesting to hear another proposal beyond what I propose - I don't see how we can do more than that

Garth: tension there between I4 & I6 in rich media & interactivity reqs - need more discussion there

Garth: Markus out - text content not too much

[gregory](gregory.md)one user's sandbox is another user's litterbox... (action)

Garth: Brady out on styling & layout - I've done an initial pass, would encourage review, these are largely manageable, some of other subgroups have more diverse reqs that will be more of a challenge

QUIT: [Alexis](Alexis.md) [2010/07/28 14:56:35]

Garth: put out suggested scale for prioritizing reqs, perhaps coords can do a pass and work w/ their groups on that prioritization - keeping in mind relevance to charter + amount of work





## rich media & interactivity ##

Peter: not much new activity, some new reqs cut across other groups - not sure they belong in RM&interactivity, but have them as a separate block

Peter: others may want to look there and maybe we can move some to other places, if someone wants to take them over.

Peter: I think review is not working all that well, not sure people are doing something

Garth: I don't know what type of guilt/threats is needed

Garth: but Markus will be back on board shortly

Peter: think people who want to review should review, then if not we move on, I don't think it's worth hodling the state of the group

Garth: agree w/ caveat of summer, that's ideal - really want to encourage people on the call - some vetting is really a good thing

BillM: subgroup coords unilaterally prioritize?

Peter: I have a problem w/ that - but how about we define buckets of features, I have a real problem about prioritizing, I have an opinion about certain things but it's unlikely to match

Garth: I did ask coords to do a somewhat unilateral pass, A-F scale, but if you want to do bucketing instead, w/ priorities to buckets, that's OK

JOINED: [keith\_fahlgren_] [2010/07/28 15:03:10]_

meetbot, list attendees

Si-Wei, Takeshi, Dan, mikeidpf, wenhsuan, gc, Si-Wei_, ChoChin, keith\_fahlgren_, Kyoji, Norm, matthaas, keith\_fahlgren, MyNick, BillMcCoy, RogerWebster, George, Alex\_Zu, MikeW3C^, awiles, MURATA, oedipus, NeilS, ShuTanabe, RogerSperberg, Ryoji\_Akimoto, MEI-LI, SteveKotrch, wmanis, BillKasdorf

QUIT: [SteveKotrch](SteveKotrch.md) [2010/07/28 15:03:18]

QUIT: [matthaas](matthaas.md) [2010/07/28 15:03:18]

meetbot, list actions

ACTION: subgroup coords, when comments go back-and-forth on Wiki pls try to create/move discussion to email list

PART: [wmanis](wmanis.md) [2010/07/28 15:03:24]

QUIT: [BillKasdorf](BillKasdorf.md) [2010/07/28 15:03:24]

PART: [Dan](Dan.md) [2010/07/28 15:03:25]

meetbot, leave