JOINED: [MeetBot](MeetBot.md) [2010/07/01 13:52:00]

JOINED: [BillMcCoy](BillMcCoy.md) [2010/07/01 13:52:25]

[BillMcCoy](BillMcCoy.md) meetbot, set scribe BillMcCoy

Scribe is now BillMcCoy

JOINED: [JonNoring](JonNoring.md) [2010/07/01 13:53:32]

QUIT: [gc](gc.md) [2010/07/01 13:53:45]

meetbot, help

JOINED: [gc](gc.md) [2010/07/01 13:55:56]

meetbot, list attendees

RhysCazenove, JonNoring, KingWai, Norm, gc, BillMcCoy, MOlenick, wmanis

[JonNoring](JonNoring.md) PRESENT: Jon Noring

JOINED: [George](George.md) [2010/07/01 13:56:12]

NOTE: you don't need to do "PRESENT" if you are on the IRC already

[gc](gc.md) PRESENT: Garth Conboy

JOINED: [Brady](Brady.md) [2010/07/01 13:56:21]

JOINED: [MURATA](MURATA.md) [2010/07/01 13:56:28]

[JonNoring](JonNoring.md) :)

[JonNoring](JonNoring.md) thanks, Bill

[George](George.md) George is here

[Brady](Brady.md) PRESENT: Brady Duga

[MURATA](MURATA.md) Hello.

[Norm](Norm.md)regrets he must send last-minute regrets this week. Will try to be better organized next week :-( (action)

JOINED: [Takeshi](Takeshi.md) [2010/07/01 13:57:51]

QUIT: [Norm](Norm.md) [2010/07/01 13:58:09]

JOINED: [Ryoji\_Akimoto](Ryoji_Akimoto.md) [2010/07/01 13:58:24]

[Brady](Brady.md) We are dialing back in to see if our connection gets any better

JOINED: [mikesmith](mikesmith.md) [2010/07/01 13:59:21]

JOINED: [DaveGunn](DaveGunn.md) [2010/07/01 13:59:30]

JOINED: [RogerWebster](RogerWebster.md) [2010/07/01 13:59:47]

JOINED: [AdamWitwer](AdamWitwer.md) [2010/07/01 13:59:56]

JOINED: [Kyoji\_Tahara](Kyoji_Tahara.md) [2010/07/01 14:00:02]

JOINED: [SteveKotrch](SteveKotrch.md) [2010/07/01 14:01:46]

JOINED: [NeilS](NeilS.md) [2010/07/01 14:01:47]

JOINED: [matclutter](matclutter.md) [2010/07/01 14:02:24]

QUIT: [Brady](Brady.md) [2010/07/01 14:02:26]

JOINED: [klbroome](klbroome.md) [2010/07/01 14:02:30]

http://code.google.com/p/epub-revision/wiki/Telcon20100624#Minutes

JOINED: [danielweck](danielweck.md) [2010/07/01 14:03:06]

JOINED: [marisa\_demeglio](marisa_demeglio.md) [2010/07/01 14:03:49]

JOINED: [BillKasdorf](BillKasdorf.md) [2010/07/01 14:05:49]

JOINED: [eric](eric.md) [2010/07/01 14:06:23]

Bill: get feedback on Design Principles doc this week if you have any





## annotations ##

WillM: need to get more concrete examples of use cases, have private emails that I'd like to share w/ entire group but they have "this email is private" banners. Please remove that banner from bottom if you want comments to be shareable

WillM: con call will come after more use case examples have been provided

George: open to input from non-subgroup members?

[RogerWebster](RogerWebster.md) Barnes & Nobles outbound e-mail servers automatically append our notice; I've asked if I can opt-out for IDPF business, and the answer was "no."  Any suggestions?

WillM: I welcome from anyone

WillM: I find it useful to have specific examples

PART: [eric](eric.md) [2010/07/01 14:11:53]

QUIT: [matclutter](matclutter.md) [2010/07/01 14:11:55]

[George](George.md) Why not just post to the wiki

JOINED: [EricMuller](EricMuller.md) [2010/07/01 14:12:28]

ACTION: Mike Smith to investigate membership agmt. vs. corporate NDA/privacy banners on emails to group





## EGLS ##

Murata: over 20 members now, want experts in other (non-Asian) languages

Murata: please let me know if you have suggestions

[BillKasdorf](BillKasdorf.md) Murata, I can very likely recruit you a good person for Arabic if you need that.

Murata: subgroup has started to create requirements, plan to solicit input through July 15, and hope to finish requirements by end of this month

Garth: planned F2F?

Murata: pre-announcement sent w/ date and confirmed location in Sapporo, and hotel info etc.

Murata: will soon send formal/final announcement and ask for registrations, this meeting is open to every member of EPUB WG, not only to EGLS subgroup

JOINED: [EricFreese](EricFreese.md) [2010/07/01 14:15:59]

Murata: trying to invite experts such as SG2, W3C SVG, etc., perhaps W3C CSS





## metadata ##

[EricMuller](EricMuller.md) I guess you can count me as a SC2 expert: I am the chair of the US Tag to SC2, and I am also an officer of Unicode.

BillK: weekly call set on Tues, working to recruit invited experts from other orgs, getting good responses

[MURATA](MURATA.md) Certainly yes!

[klbroome](klbroome.md) There was a request for attendance by tc100's ebook committee . I have not gotten a response yet.

[MURATA](MURATA.md) Both of us are friends of Hiura-san.

BillK: for example, someone w/ lots of expertise on library metadata

[klbroome](klbroome.md) For the meeting in Sapporo

BillK: hoping Dianne Kennedy may represent PRISM

PRESENT: Dianne Kennedy

Dianne: yes

JOINED: [matclutter](matclutter.md) [2010/07/01 14:18:12]

Dianne: we are looking at our own use cases

[EricFreese](EricFreese.md) PRESENT: Eric Freese

Dianne: will start an activity on this on July 7, starting with use case for sending content to eReaders, with metadata first on list

[klbroome](klbroome.md) PRESENT: Karen Broome

NOTE: if you are on IRC, no need to do "PRESENT"

[MURATA](MURATA.md) EGLS:  I forgot to say that the EGLS subgroup has not start teleconferences.  Will do after the July 15 deadline or the F2F.

.... "PRESENT" is only to track those only on the phone





## navigation ##

George: join us if you want to be included, fairly straightforward (based on DAISY evolution)





## text ##

Garth: Markus regrets, he's planning to get subgroup conf calls going, looking for optimal times

Garth: please look at it and sign up as appropriate





## styling & layout ##

Brady: sent call for participation, over 20 on wiki page, seeded a couple of reqs to get things started & requested folks add to it (whether they will be addressed is another story)

Brady: wants reqs by mid July in order to hit deadlines, not hard cutoff but goal

Garth: planning email not calls?

Brady: yes, if that fails, maybe calls

PRESENT: Peter Sorotokin

Peter: will invite people to interactivity group later today and we'll start going

PRESENT: Ric Wright

RicW: if you have use cases please send them to me or Peter (who is actual coord)





## advertising ##

Garth: no coord yet - please volunteer!

Garth: encourage coords to think about whether calls are needed, how often, etc.

Garth: please post your plan on the Wiki

Garth: one missing item, there are 15 or 20 items in 2.0.1 that were put off to "future directions", I plan to put them into buckets for appropriate subgroups to look at

Garth: looks like this time on Thurs will be the winning time but we won't make final call w/out Markus

Garth: hopefully that will happen in email before nex week

[George](George.md) Poetry and other future directions may fit into more than one group, like text.

JOINED: [zsircusr](zsircusr.md) [2010/07/01 14:28:44]

Bill: please send only your email address to get wiki access, NOT password

QUIT: [EricFreese](EricFreese.md) [2010/07/01 14:30:03]

Meetbot, list actions

ACTION: Mike Smith to investigate membership agmt. vs. corporate NDA/privacy banners on emails to group

Meetbot, list attendees

Takeshi, mikesmith, Jon Noring, JonNoring, DaveGunn, Ric Wright, gc, Brady Duga, klbroome, Peter Sorotokin, Kyoji\_Tahara, Norm, zsircusr, Karen Broome, marisa\_demeglio, BillMcCoy, RogerWebster, George, RhysCazenove, KingWai, Garth Conboy, AdamWitwer, danielweck, Eric Freese, MOlenick, MURATA, Brady, Dianne Kennedy, NeilS, EricMuller, matclutter, Ryoji\_Akimoto, eric, EricFreese, SteveKotrch, wmanis, BillKasdorf

Karen: interest from TC100 in attending Sapporo meeting - possible?

Garth: it should be open to those bringing expertise

Murata: not sure whether Sapporo event is best venue for TC100 vs. EPUB discussion, phone conference is also planned

Murata: Sapporo meeting is about requirements gathering and possible solutions, not integration/alignment

Murata: "harmonization" has to be out of scope for that meeting or it will take all the time and we won't discuss requirements

George: TC100 - I thought that was primarily devices/screens/batteries etc.

Karen: not entirely

Karen: as we go into rich media there is experience there, it is device centric but there is useful experience no matter what path the work takes

Murata: not sure if EPUB leadership will be at Sapporo meeting

Garth: idea of one of leadership to be there (TBD)

Garth: perhaps more than one

George: leave this as discussion point

Bill: prev was Garth

George: ads coord - volunteer? know any candidate - let me know and I'll email them

MeetBot, leave