
```
[2:06pm] marisa_demeglio: MeetBot, set scribe marisa_demeglio
[2:06pm] MeetBot: Scribe is now marisa_demeglio
[2:06pm] NeilS joined the chat room.
[2:06pm] Takeshi joined the chat room.
[2:06pm] ChoChin joined the chat room.
[2:06pm] marisa_demeglio: Garth discussing Markus's notes from TPAC
[2:07pm] wen-hsuan joined the chat room.
[2:07pm] gc: * We have agreement to set up a formal liaison with CSS WG (and Elika was set as that liaison at the W3C side, which may have to change since Elika is not W3C staff, but thats a minor detail for now, I'll clear this up with Bert tomorrow).
[2:07pm] gc: * I (as instructed by Makoto) plugged the importance of writing modes, so it is clear to all that this would be the initial topic/outcome of the liaison. Technical discussions will follow tomorrow; Elika pushed a new draft yesterday.
[2:07pm] gc: * We are expected to contribute test cases for Writing Modes to the CSS test suite, and eventually submit reading system implementations of it as W3C implementation reports (I perceived this as a condition from their POV)
[2:07pm] gc: * HÃ¥kon was very interested in knowing more about Peters page templates proposal, and was pointed to our public emailing list for more info
[2:07pm] gc: * DAISY submitted Daniel Weck as new editor of CSS3 Speech, which with some luck can go up the REC ladder enough notches to replace our current reference to the aural stylesheets appendix in CSS 2.1
[2:08pm] marisa_demeglio: Topics for today: editors reports, captions/subtitles, XML islands, required video formats
[2:08pm] marisa_demeglio: TOPIC: editors report
[2:08pm] marisa_demeglio: bill: new document structure, see wiki
[2:09pm] BillKasdorf joined the chat room.
[2:09pm] marisa_demeglio: bill: improved organization re: scripted/unscripted content and relationship with html5
[2:10pm] marisa_demeglio: bill: top 10 issues with the spec (all in tracker)
[2:10pm] kennyluck joined the chat room.
[2:11pm] danielweck joined the chat room.
[2:12pm] marisa_demeglio: 1. what is our namespace?  how about "epub"?
[2:12pm] danielweck: NOTE: Daniel Weck just joined, couldn't make it on time ! Sorry.
[2:13pm] marisa_demeglio: no objections noted to "epub"
[2:14pm] marisa_demeglio: 2. spec has a "future directions" statement; can we move that out of the spec?
[2:14pm] marisa_demeglio: agreed to drop that section
[2:15pm] marisa_demeglio: 3. is the vocabulary for ops:type normative or informative?
[2:16pm] marisa_demeglio: (http://code.google.com/p/epub-revision/issues/detail?id=42)
[2:17pm] marisa_demeglio: this needs clarification - why might it be best left informative?
[2:17pm] marisa_demeglio: 4. http://code.google.com/p/epub-revision/issues/detail?id=34
[2:18pm] marisa_demeglio: resolved.
[2:18pm] marisa_demeglio: 5. do we specify reading system conformance to say that they must/should/may reject html content?
[2:18pm] marisa_demeglio: http://code.google.com/p/epub-revision/issues/detail?id=36
[2:19pm] marisa_demeglio: Peter: "reading system MUST use proper XML parser"
[2:21pm] marisa_demeglio: Peter: "HTML spec says to pick the parser based on the mime type"
[2:22pm] marisa_demeglio: 6. fallbacks http://code.google.com/p/epub-revision/issues/detail?id=33
[2:23pm] marisa_demeglio: bill:  we should say that some item types cannot have fallbacks (e.g. NCX)
[2:24pm] marisa_demeglio: garth: we should remove the blanket statement in the spec and replace with specific item restrictions
[2:24pm] marisa_demeglio: peter: we should not restrict ability to have fallback by media type
[2:24pm] marisa_demeglio: more fallback issues: http://code.google.com/p/epub-revision/issues/detail?id=35
[2:26pm] marisa_demeglio: (that was #7; resolved)
[2:27pm] marisa_demeglio: 8. what is the rational for "guide" in the NCX?
[2:28pm] marisa_demeglio: george: why not use a nav list in the NCX instead?
[2:29pm] marisa_demeglio: ACTION: Garth to look into this
[2:29pm] Brady joined the chat room.
[2:31pm] marisa_demeglio: 9. packaging and networked epub
[2:31pm] marisa_demeglio: http://code.google.com/p/epub-revision/issues/detail?id=32
[2:32pm] marisa_demeglio: peter: networked books interesting for web app implementations but they likely have their own protocols
[2:33pm] marisa_demeglio: garth: we haven't designed for this use case, so we should remove it
[2:33pm] marisa_demeglio: peter: http is not sufficient
[2:34pm] marisa_demeglio: TOPIC: iframe and fallbacks
[2:34pm] marisa_demeglio: peter: HTML5 spec specifically and purposely does not have fallback
[2:35pm] marisa_demeglio: peter: iframes could start blank (with no @src), creating embedded browser context anyway, and be later populated via scripting
[2:36pm] marisa_demeglio: peter: this would be a legitimate case of why an iframe would not have any content
[2:36pm] marisa_demeglio: peter: don't think it's legal to reference non-html5 content from iframe.  so, it does not need a fallback.
[2:37pm] marisa_demeglio: peter: fallbacks are for non-blessed content (PDF, flash)
[2:37pm] Brady left the chat room. (Quit: Colloquy for iPad - http://colloquy.mobi)
[2:40pm] marisa_demeglio: peter: we should say that iframe @src target must be XHTML content (HTML5 spec is too general, browser-specific for our needs)
[2:40pm] marisa_demeglio: george: accessibility of iframe content?
[2:42pm] marisa_demeglio: peter: iframe is for nested browser context, in our case OPS, accessibility is maintained
[2:43pm] SteveKotrch left the chat room. (Quit: SteveKotrch)
[2:44pm] marisa_demeglio: bill: any objections to referring to this document as "editors draft" instead of "internal working draft"?
[2:44pm] marisa_demeglio: no objections
[2:44pm] marisa_demeglio: TOPIC: captions and subtitles
[2:45pm] marisa_demeglio: geoff: proposal sent to the list to follow HTML5 regarding caption/subtitle format with a backup provision in case they don't make a timely decision
[2:46pm] marisa_demeglio: geoff: two popular options, WebSRT and TTML
[2:47pm] marisa_demeglio: geoff: WebSRT a new format based on non-standard SRT; likely that if HTML5 chooses it, it will undergo more development
[2:48pm] marisa_demeglio: geoff: if HTML5 does not choose, suggest that EBUB reference TTML.  it's a W3C spec in the final stages of recommendation.
[2:50pm] marisa_demeglio: geoff: HTML5 not necessarily expected to decide before January (EPUB public draft date)
[2:50pm] marisa_demeglio: peter: would not want to take a position on TTML until HTML5 decides; it's not an easy format to re-encode
[2:51pm] marisa_demeglio: correction: HTML5 not necessarily expected to decide by January (EPUB public draft date)
[2:52pm] marisa_demeglio: peter: we should follow HTML5, don't want to second-guess them
[2:53pm] marisa_demeglio: george: if TTML is W3C-approved and come May, it's not included in HTML5, chances are that HTML5 will decide something else
[2:55pm] marisa_demeglio: TTML is complex
[2:56pm] marisa_demeglio: bill: we should normatively reference HTML5 spec, which currently references WebSRT, and should we put an issue in the tracker that if they change their minds, we should reconsider
[2:57pm] marisa_demeglio: george: are there video formats that associate themselves with different captioning standard?
[2:58pm] marisa_demeglio: geoff: yes, e.g. flash, quicktime, windows media, smil, realplayer
[2:58pm] marisa_demeglio: geoff: smpte captioning group will be using TTML as a convergent format
[2:58pm] marisa_demeglio: king wai: multimedia container formats (e.g. mpeg4) support captioning, widely used in digital broadcast
[2:59pm] marisa_demeglio: king wai: 708 captions
[3:00pm] marisa_demeglio: agreed to go along with HTML5
[3:00pm] marisa_demeglio: we are out of time.  two topics remain: XML Islands and video formats
[3:01pm] marisa_demeglio: TOPIC: video formats
[3:01pm] marisa_demeglio: all asked to review and respond on the list
[3:01pm] marisa_demeglio: pasted link/notes coming to IRC soon...
[3:01pm] marisa_demeglio: TOPIC: out of line XML islands
[3:02pm] marisa_demeglio: garth: can we deprecate these?
[3:02pm] marisa_demeglio: bill: proposal is to remove it from content conformance
[3:04pm] kingwai left the chat room. (Ping timeout: 260 seconds)
[3:04pm] marisa_demeglio: garth: out of line XML islands are arbitrary grammars or sections of content using non-blessed XHTML5 modules
[3:04pm] marisa_demeglio: agree to deprecate them unless any counter examples are found
[3:05pm] marisa_demeglio: TOPIC: video formats
[3:05pm] gc: Please review: http://code.google.com/p/epub-revision/wiki/ImplementationProposalRichMediaFormat
[3:05pm] gc: For discussion next week!
```