[marisa\_demeglio](marisa_demeglio.md) MeetBot, set scribe marisa\_demeglio

Scribe is now marisa\_demeglio

PART: [Murata](Murata.md) [2010/10/06 23:02:28]

JOINED: [Murata](Murata.md) [2010/10/06 23:03:39]

JOINED: [Si-Wei] [2010/10/06 23:03:53]

[mgylling](mgylling.md) recording file name 101006

[Murata](Murata.md) Hello

[Murata](Murata.md) Yes

[Murata](Murata.md) No, I am in a hotel

Many wg members are at a conference in Frankfurt

yes

JOINED: [wen-hsuan] [2010/10/06 23:05:31]

Previous action items

JOINED: [NeilS](NeilS.md) [2010/10/06 23:06:17]

JOINED: [matthaas](matthaas.md) [2010/10/06 23:07:12]

JOINED: [ChoChin](ChoChin.md) [2010/10/06 23:07:47]

JOINED: [danielweck](danielweck.md) [2010/10/06 23:07:48]
## F2F ##
F2F organization: many subgroups need to have discussions with members from other subgroups.  Therefore, splitting up is not optimal.  Suggest the following: two  meeting groups made up of many subgroups.  Each meeting group has a coordinator who ensures that the meeting group sessions are done in a planned manner (can split up or stay a group).  They present the findings.

[Murata](Murata.md) EGLS does not require a subgroup meeting in San Francisco.

Suggestion: subgroups in the morning, plenary in the afternoon.  Entire group can review issues and implementation proposals.

[Murata](Murata.md) EGLS will provide a set of recommendations next week.

Two groups:

1. EGLS, Styling, Rich media.  Brady to coordinate.

[Murata](Murata.md) OK

2. Text content, annotations, metadata, navigation. Markus to coordinate.

[Murata](Murata.md) Sounds good to me

The last day is a half day.  Expect most of it to be a full group plenary.

JOINED: [Mei-Li] [2010/10/06 23:11:02]

[Si-Wei] A little question about IRC & phone call in subgroup, wether there will add another chart room in the subgroup session?

getting drafts out and adjusting scope are topics for the last day

JOINED: [karenbroome](karenbroome.md) [2010/10/06 23:12:34]

Si-Wei: we'll try to make sure that each subgroup is connected; not sure of what audio quality will be available (depends on availability of good mics).


## Subgroup status reports ##

Annotations

Coming to F2F with implementations for several different proposed mechanisms

[Si-Wei] thank a lot

Comments welcome on the current wiki page

Overlap with other groups re: document identification

QUIT: [Norm](Norm.md) [2010/10/06 23:16:05]

[Murata](Murata.md) Fantasai, how can we make an international phone call from this hotel?

Want to discuss range of use cases

EGLS

[Murata](Murata.md) Unfortunately no

[Murata](Murata.md) We had very nice good meeting

Murata, shall we move on or would you like to type?

[Murata](Murata.md) 06:12 **karenbroo**

[Murata](Murata.md) 06:12 **karenbroo**

[Murata](Murata.md) Sorry

[Murata](Murata.md) Fantasai, are you here?

[Murata](Murata.md) Ishii-san?

[Murata](Murata.md) EGLS requests that this document  be published as part of

[Murata](Murata.md) the EPUB family of specifications.

[Murata](Murata.md) http://fantasai.inkedblade.net/style/specs/altss-tags/

[Murata](Murata.md) W3C is developing two specs.  They are expected to become

[Murata](Murata.md) CRs early next year.

[Murata](Murata.md) http://dev.w3.org/csswg/css3-text-layout/

[Murata](Murata.md) http://dev.w3.org/csswg/css3-text/

[Murata](Murata.md) EGLS relies on these specs heavily

[Murata](Murata.md) We will provide recommendations soon.

Thanks, I am relaying this info to the call

[Murata](Murata.md) That's all

Next subgroup

Metadata

Looking at RDFa

Comments welcome on wiki proposal

outstanding i18n issue (related to metadata, package file, and ncx)

[Murata](Murata.md) We discussed about that

[Murata](Murata.md) We rather request two elements

[Murata](Murata.md) One is for ideographics

[Murata](Murata.md) The other is for Hiragana or Bopomofo ruby

[Murata](Murata.md) Yes!

plain text is all that's allowed for human-readable text (labels etc).  however, certain features require more.

thanks Murata, we look forward to hearing more

Navigation

NCX to be cleaned up during this revision but no major revisions are expected

Relax NG schema to be created

Text Content

Two open threads

1. dictionaries

use cases available

JOINED: [Ryoji\_Akimoto](Ryoji_Akimoto.md) [2010/10/06 23:24:35]

at the top of the dictionaries, glossaries wiki page.  these use cases are intended to guide us in the design.

input welcome on the use cases

2. OPF grammar

wiki page started, "HTML5 Subsetting"

[DanHughes](DanHughes.md) Dictionary/Glossary wiki page: http://code.google.com/p/epub-revision/wiki/DictionariesGlossaries

Styling

some additional requirements coming

Rich Media

implementation proposals started

contributions and refinements welcome

question: are we specifying codecs beyond what HTML5 says?

HTML5 does not define a set of formats

it's a difficult problem, not addressed yet, but proposals welcome

JOINED: [kennyluck](kennyluck.md) [2010/10/06 23:30:17]

Clarifications from last week, "Night Mode" discussion

No agreement was reached, good for the F2F.

Scripting

looking for best compromise solution

two issues that came up during side discussions

JOINED: [wenhsuan](wenhsuan.md) [2010/10/06 23:36:12]

1. we don't know everything that interactivity and scripting will be used for

2. HTML5 scripting is under-specified and not yet finalized

would be challenging to subset HTML5 scripting

QUIT: [wen-hsuan] [2010/10/06 23:38:37]

no concept of modularity in script processing

JOINED: [peter](peter.md) [2010/10/06 23:39:23]

a big problem: scripting in a flow document may likely conflict with pagination features in reading systems

QUIT: [peter](peter.md) [2010/10/06 23:40:18]

proposal: allow two different types of content

1. OPS, which is probably going to be a small subset of HTML5.  processed according to expectations for existing reading systems.

2. HTML5 content, processed by a browser UA

recommend that for HTML5 use, restrict for maximum compatibility with other reading systems, but since it's HTML5, the APIs are then available

JOINED: [gc](gc.md) [2010/10/06 23:42:12]

JOINED: [jiang-chun] [2010/10/06 23:42:25]

still being discussed, at what level do we contain scripting (in an iframe?)

expectation: where scripting appears, pagination may be disabled

fallback mechanisms in place

has implications for conformance testing

benefits: keeps OPS declarative, also lets us be ok with HTML5's unfinished-ness

downside: content authors could get lazy and start using HTML5 everywhere, even for content that could be represented by OPS

downside: either-or choice of getting scripting or new OPS features (that are not necessarily in HTML5)

question from will manis: will there be restrictions on what the scripting engine can do to that content?

answer: we can make high-level recommendations but not enough is known about script use cases to make individual restrictions

QUIT: [Ryoji\_Akimoto](Ryoji_Akimoto.md) [2010/10/06 23:55:46]

up for consideration: looking at design patterns such as MVC

JOINED: [Ryoji\_Akimoto](Ryoji_Akimoto.md) [2010/10/06 23:56:46]

statements about document stability: DOM modifications must not interfere with annotation, accessibility

(examples of features which rely upon a stable document structure)

why it is fruitless to try to restrict scripting: reading systems that support scripting will be using browsers, whose script processing rules we can't control

question: in HTML5 mode, are the extensions allowed?

answer: reading-system dependent

concerns about bifurcation of OPS, could inadvertently create two versions

next steps: discuss on list, create examples

QUIT: [James\_Pritchett](James_Pritchett.md) [2010/10/07 00:09:20]

MeetBot, list attendees

Si-Wei, wen-hsuan, wenhsuan, DaveGunn, gc, fantasai, karenbroome, ChoChin, DanHughes, Kyoji, Norm, jiang-chun, kennyluck, matthaas, James\_Pritchett, BillMcCoy, marisa\_demeglio, KingWai, peter, danielweck, Murata, NeilS, ShuTanabe, Ryoji\_Akimoto, SteveKotrch, Mei-Li, mgylling, wmanis