JOINED: [MeetBot](MeetBot.md) [2010/08/18 13:58:48]

JOINED: [BillMcCoy](BillMcCoy.md) [2010/08/18 13:59:16]

JOINED: [marisa\_demeglio](marisa_demeglio.md) [2010/08/18 14:00:02]

JOINED: [Si-Wei] [2010/08/18 14:00:20]

JOINED: [mikeidpf](mikeidpf.md) [2010/08/18 14:00:38]

JOINED: [SteveKotrch](SteveKotrch.md) [2010/08/18 14:00:58]

JOINED: [keith\_fahlgren](keith_fahlgren.md) [2010/08/18 14:01:06]

PART: [MMURATA](MMURATA.md) [2010/08/18 14:01:15]

JOINED: [George](George.md) [2010/08/18 14:01:35]

JOINED: [duga](duga.md) [2010/08/18 14:01:44]

JOINED: [BillKasdorf](BillKasdorf.md) [2010/08/18 14:01:47]

[George](George.md) Filename for recording: 100818

JOINED: [danielweck](danielweck.md) [2010/08/18 14:01:55]

[BillMcCoy](BillMcCoy.md) meetbot, set scribe BillMcCoy

Scribe is now BillMcCoy

JOINED: [ChoChin](ChoChin.md) [2010/08/18 14:02:16]

JOINED: [MM](MM.md) [2010/08/18 14:02:28]

JOINED: [wenhsuan](wenhsuan.md) [2010/08/18 14:02:41]

Markus: regrets Kenny





## previous minutes ##

Markus: let us know if something unacceptable there





## prev action item review ##

[George](George.md) 21 people on the telephone

Markus: a task is to collect codependencies & relations between subgroups

JOINED: [Takeshi](Takeshi.md) [2010/08/18 14:05:20]

Markus: liaison draft letter?

Brady: draft in review, will be out to leadership shortly

[duga](duga.md) I just lost phone service (cell) here. Will try to get back on shortly

Markus: ARIA requirements for text content, I have a message out on this

Markus: Peter sent email about chapter-level scripting, thanks





## subgroup status - annotations ##

Markus: no Will Manis?

[duga](duga.md) I am back on the call

ACTION: Markus to contact Will Manis and suggest that Daniel Weck set aside time to help on annotations page

Markus: Daniel is a DAISY rep with expertise in annotations, we're volunteering his time to step in and help

JOINED: [karenbroome](karenbroome.md) [2010/08/18 14:08:32]

JOINED: [Mei-Li] [2010/08/18 14:08:37]

[karenbroome](karenbroome.md) Sorry I'm late...





## subgroup status - EGLS ##

Makoto: minutes of Sapporo mtg not quite ready yet, but logfiles are prepared (raw version), linked from EGLS wiki page

Makoto: we had first telecon yesterday, plan to have 2nd F2F in early Oct in Taipei

Makoto: tentative schedule is Oct 4 or 5, not finalized, but 2nd week

Makoto: actively merging requirements now based on Sapporo discussion, we haven't started ranking yet sorry

Makoto: we aren't sure we can finish by 27th

Makoto: will have finalized reqs by then

Makoto: next week I'll be on vacation, can't attend call

Markus: Brady & Bill attended prev meeting from Chair group, please let us know about situation whether partic+ipation would be necessary/desirable

Makoto: is it OK to invite nonmember Experts for example Kobayashi Unicode Director etc.?

George: yes

George: if there's people you need bringing them on as invited expert is perfectly fine, and we have liaison relationship w/ W3C established

Makoto: how about non-members to F2F meeting, in Sapporo case I invited 5, all of them have some positions in W3C, such as editors or chairs

Makoto: exception was Secretary of IEC TC100

Makoto: would like to invite Taiwanese company members, even if not IDPF?

George: always in favor of being more inclusive, would encourage companies to consider joining

George: they don't have to necessary to be part of F2F

QUIT: [MyNick](MyNick.md) [2010/08/18 14:13:30]

Makoto: this gives them good opportunity to consider joining IDPF

BillM: several invited experts contributed to success of Sapporo F2F, 2like Kobayashi

Makoto: yes





## subgroup status report, metadata ##

BillK: whether metadata should be embedded in pub is an issue, and if so which elements would it make sense to include, whether we should point to external location instead

BillK: turns out Editeur group that maintains ONIX recommends an ONIX file in its entirety should be incorporated into an EPUB file

BillK: I asked Graham ??? to flesh out this proposal, he just did that less than an hour ago

BillK: he's making the case to not point to an external file, since ONIX can be highly variable from publisher to publisher; he's proposed a list of elements he feels are stable enough to be included in EPUB

JOINED: [MikeSmithXX](MikeSmithXX.md) [2010/08/18 14:16:35]

BillK: coming up with a resolution on this is fundamental to addressing other requirements and other subgroup requirements on us

BillK: that is on wiki an available for others to review and comment on

BillK: will put notice out tmw AM on the Wiki

BillK: (was) about the new files on the Wiki

DianneK: he was on our call Wed, IDEAlliance activity has reached clarity on our mission & goals and how they different from general EPUB group, and how important it is to. coordinate

DianneK: activity is called nextpub, it is designed to complement EPUB to interoperate but it's a very different thing in that EPUB is as BillK put it, it is a destination format

DianeK: final delivery format for devices, whereas nextpub is defined as a rich semantic encoding for broad category of content so it can be transformed for delivery

DianeK: certain things happening so that i can provide input back metadata is one of these

DianeK: we've defined for nextpub the rich metadata that we think we need as this content is housed on a content repository so it can be served up to a variety of devices

DianeK: primarily in EPUB

QUIT: [MikeW3C^] [2010/08/18 14:20:27]

DianeK: but since much of the metadata is used in process of transforming, we need to determine what's needed at delivery time, I think the list of metadata that needs to be there will be less

BillK: nextpub is really more of a source format from which various outputs would be generated

DianeK: hence it's important to be tracking together so that that kind of a transform is possible

DK: we're working on a graphic that shows the model and relationship between nextpub and epub, it's not immediately clear

DK: we are refining every time our group meets

DK: and what touchpoints we need to make sure we work together

BillK: a lot of this applies to text content WG as well

DK: what rich text model is for nextpub, and then what needs to play in epub world when it's finally at the device

DK: layered content and hotspot functions you see in Wired on iPad, there's a lot of clarifying that we need to do, so far we've been tracking real well

DK: hopefully providing some meaningful requirements back in

Markus: if PRISM or Ideaalliance with info on nextpub I'm sure many of us would like to see it

DK: working on it, and graphic about relationship

DK: early Sep when I get all this put together, we'll have nextpub.org so you can see what it is, inc. scope and focus

DK: we want to make sure it's not explained as competitor for EPUB, but they serve different functions, EPUB is how you deliver for display

BillM: EPUB is also for interchange

DK: nextpub has no formatting info and outputs include print

BillM: understood, just think we may need to do more work on alignment

BillK: content is not unitary, but gets sliced & diced differently

BillM: so does textbooks





## navigation ##

George: new issue about optionality of OPF, to drive use case for single-file then why would it be needed?

George: req is there and we need to figure out whether we want to do it in terms of our architecture, it's more that than requirements level

George: people might want to jump in to ongoing discussion on the list





## subgroup status report - text content ##

Markus: issue with Takeshi being discussed on the list, Diane you also are working on clarifications?

DianeK: provided them now on the Wiki

DianeK: with one exception





## styling & layout ##

Brady: received many more rankings (8 people total), collating & will get summary out hopefully today to WG for review

Brady: got feedback that reqs need clean up for clarity etc.

Brady: so next week will be focused on finalizing the rankings, but we may not yet have agreement on prioritization

[duga](duga.md) http://code.google.com/p/epub-revision/wiki/CSS3Relations

Brady: while I have the floor would like to bring attention to CSS3 relation page on the wiki

Brady: have fleshed out what Makoto started, it's very impt for Styling & layout, also EGLS, and really all implementors





## rich media, interactivity, ads ##

Peter: summarized in email I just sent, wanted to go ahead and put rankings on the page, might stimulate people to put in their own rankings

Markus: if we disregard rankings, how stable is the list of reqs, are there more incoming?

Peter: they disappeared into the void, I gave the person permission to edit but didn't see anything there

QUIT: [mikeidpf](mikeidpf.md) [2010/08/18 14:32:05]

JOINED: [mikeidpf](mikeidpf.md) [2010/08/18 14:32:32]

Markus: reminder please collect cross-subgroup reqs

Markus: other subgroup work questions?





## 2.1 vs. 3.0 ##

Markus: much discussion on list, assuming all have followed

Markus: as mentioned 7 time

Markus: in the last 5 emails, this is a Board decision

Markus: but WG can at a minimum approach Board and request them to take the decision early, instead of late, as charter suggests

George: is on agenda for tomorrow's Board meeting, if there's recommendations from this group we'd love to hear them, if you'd like to join that part of the call you're welcome

Markus: I propose we ask the board to take the decision early

Markus: no disagreement?

BillK: does Board understand the scope?

George: Liza, Garth, and I have and have responsibility to make sure the Board as a whole understands

George: if there's thoughts on the number Board would like to hear those opinions

Steve: having opened Pandora's Box, there's a number of ways this would be relevant, I personally have expectations in terms of backwards compatibility when we talk about 3.0 vs. 2.1 minor revision

Steve: Bill floating idea of making current metadata optional would make more sense if we were going to 3.0, because we could break some backwards compatibility

Steve: but that would not be suitable for 2.1 release

[keith\_fahlgren](keith_fahlgren.md) My name is Keith

PeterS: I think 2.1 vs. 3.0 means different things to different people, we're discussing different things, it's kind of a marketing thing

PeterS: marketing specialists should look into it but it's not really a technical issue, it can get aligned with technical things like backwards compatibility but these should be explicitly on the table, not implicit in version

Markus: these two symbols serve as indicators for how important backwards compatibility expectation is, how many changes we can do that break that

Markus: apart from marketing and all that, but this is all about compatibility

Markus: when we know where we want to be in regards to that, we can perhaps derive a suitable number

Makoto: quite a few people in EGLS subgroup would like to address urgent issues so EPUB won't be killed or forked into variations within the next year

Makoto: such variations are being designed by quite a few companies, we'd like to publish a very small addition to EPUB

Makoto: so 2.1 is favored, so EPUB can be alive and in IDPF control

PeterS: that's a balance of what is more important vs. less important, you can argue that EPUB for magazines is also at this similar inflection point, we urgently need layout features

Makoto: you think without advanced layout features, EPUB will be killed in magazine area

PeterS: look at Wired, Sports Illustrated... Wired by Adobe designers, they said well EPUB no it doesn't have this and that, come back when you have thoese problems solved

PeterS: so they invented their own format

PeterS: I don't know if any magazines use EPUB today, situation is exactly parallel, I'm hard pressed to see any difference

PeterS: I don't want to diminish importance of solving Japanese issues

PeterS: interactivity is also important, if we can do just these 3 things (vertical, layout, interactivity) I'd be willing to say that's it, but maybe others will have other priorities

George: we do plan to have a draft stanadrd for trial use early, I don't know if that helps us in the battle to have people move towrads EPUB

George: targeting Dec/Jan

George: when I think of major release, with interactivity, video, layout that seems like major improvement that would point to 3.0

[mgylling](mgylling.md) I got disconnected

[keith\_fahlgren](keith_fahlgren.md) I was also disconnected

BillM: disconnected but now back

BillM: (Skype that is)

[keith\_fahlgren](keith_fahlgren.md) Back

PeterS: if we have standard we can look at it and decide how we want to name it

PeterS: I don't see value in spending time on deciding 2.1 vs. 3.0, deciding on timelines, backwards compatibility, that makes sense but deciding on label

PeterS: rather you decide quickly and we move on

Diane: I think it's interesting comparison between mag content & J under EPUB umbrella, on mag side we hope that can be done, and I think you were right about two key factors, interactivity and layout

Diane: if we can serve it up in EPUB that's ideal, in terms of marketing - 3.0 label, "EPUB3" says this is something new, the next generation, that's my $.50

QUIT: [danielweck](danielweck.md) [2010/08/18 14:45:59]

JOINED: [danielweck_] [2010/08/18 14:46:04]_

Markus: returning to backwards compatibility how important is this? KeithF started the thread

Markus: is it a deal breaker

Peter: almost no devices have lack of backwards compatibility

PeterS: we still have devices shipping with code Adobe released 2 years ago, and they don't have plans to upgrade, not minor guys

PeterS: not all devices are network aware, to start with

PeterS: so having something which wouldn't gracefully degrade would be a major issue

Peter: if we add tags, metadata, that's all fine, but if we design OPF was a bad idea or get rid of it altogether, that's causing problems

Brady: BC is not about reading systems but also aobut EPUBs still working on existing and new RS

Brady: reality is EPUBs will not necessarily support old EPUB standard, if you break old content, publishers won't want to redo old books

BillM: consumers may not have that option with previously delivered books!

Diane: what about profiles?

Peter: our problem is testing, testing is extremely expensive, profiles are used more as a consensus building tool in standards orgs rather than as real-world solution

Peter: two camps, one camp doing one thing, one doing another, not talking but living under a single roof

PeterS: it is like separation in marriage, it's not solving the problem

Markus: if we find ourselves done with A level only at end of year so be it

Markus: timeline is not under discussion

Markus: BC, not sure I understand the range of what "degrade gracefully" means

Markus: BC, not sure I understand the range of what "degrade gracefully" means we have CSS as layout engine, it has specific way to deal with content that's not understood

Peter: old engines won't get the new stuff

Peter: it will be a no-op basically

Peter: we can change things almost any way we like

QUIT: [wenhsuan](wenhsuan.md) [2010/08/18 14:53:41]

Peter: if we say index.html is now a good way to author it will be more problematic

KeithF: I think there have been 2 topics about BC raised, one was for existing EPUB content (& potentially existing authoring tools) and Peter wrt changes for reading systems

KeithF: would like to understand your thoughts on how these goals can be made more concrete

KeithF: I don't believe we have consensus or shared understanding about definitions

BillM: the former topic is sometimes called "forwards compatibility" or "upwards compatibility"

Markus: I get the feeling that folks like Peter will let us know if we do something that breaks existing RS

KeithF: I don't understand what "breaks" means, I don't want to be bound by poor decisions in one domain unless the whole WG feels its valuable

PeterS: what I mean by "breaks" is that if you have EPUB 3.0 and you throw it on EPUB 2.0 compatible RS you get something, obviously not everything else why

PeterS: did we do the new standard? You should see something, not necessarily the whole thing

PeterS: you can throw new content on old browsers you will still see something, you can still consume it (except scripts)

KeithF: not concerned we can't establish consensus, and I think it would be valuable to start developing it

PeterS: agree

KeithF: developing something that documents the consensus of this WG wrt goals for this revision for different aspects of backwards compatibility, more specific than Design Principles

KeithF: valuable to start developing this at this time

ACTION: KeithF draft???

KeithF: happy to contribute & coordinate the work, would happy to speak to Markus & perhaps others about structure, maybe there's some examples

[keith\_fahlgren](keith_fahlgren.md) will do

George: provide open source tool DAISY does to transform existing content to newer content

QUIT: [danielweck_] [2010/08/18 15:00:06]_

George: notion that content should be good 1000 years from now, not so much in the standard but in tools that transform it

Neil: what most people have been talking about is not backwards compatibility, being able to read 2.01 in new reader, but forwards compatibility, ability for new content to be read in old reader

PeterS: something is backwards, either content or RS

Neil: HTML5 will not be forwards compatible, since they include SVG & MathML which display horribly in old browser

PeterS: that's good enough

Neil: it will be nonsense

PeterS: it displays actual textual content in the case of SVG it's better than nothing

PeterS: better than if you had nothing

BillM: better than if it crashed old browsers!

PeterS: if we add MathML, then old RS can't support them

PeterS: if you use old features it should work with old RS

Markus: Keith will work w/ some Board and WG members to clarify asap

Markus: thanks Keith for helping us out

QUIT: [George](George.md) [2010/08/18 15:03:18]

Markus: drop final agenda item suggest we continue on chatper-leve2l scripting on the list

ACTION: chair group to start looking at when to have another WG F2F, Oct?

George: do you want to propose a meeting of chair group on Friday?

Markus: yes

George: Keith, how do you want to engage Board w/ backwards/forward compatibility issue?

KeithF: emial

QUIT: [RogerWebster](RogerWebster.md) [2010/08/18 15:05:01]

Meetbot, list attendees

Si-Wei, Takeshi, mikeidpf, DaveGunn, wenhsuan, karenbroome, ChoChin, duga, danielweck_, Kyoji, keith\_fahlgren, MikeSmithXX, MyNick, marisa\_demeglio, BillMcCoy, RogerWebster, George, MikeW3C^, KingWai, danielweck, MM, MMURATA, SteveKotrch, Mei-Li, mgylling, BillKasdorf_

Meetbot, list actions

ACTION: Markus to contact Will Manis and suggest that Daniel Weck set aside time to help on annotations page

ACTION: KeithF draft???

ACTION: chair group to start looking at when to have another WG F2F, Oct?

QUIT: [KingWai](KingWai.md) [2010/08/18 15:05:18]

MeetBot, leave