Chair: Garth Conboy

Scribe: Bill McCoy

# Attendees #

Takeshi, mikesmith, Jon Noring, DaveGunn, Ric Wright, Brady Duga, klbroome, Peter Sorotokin, Kyoji\_Tahara, Norm, zsircusr, Karen Broome, marisa\_demeglio, BillMcCoy, RogerWebster, George, RhysCazenove, KingWai, Garth Conboy, AdamWitwer, danielweck, Eric Freese, !MOlenick, MURATA, Brady, Dianne Kennedy, NeilS, EricMuller, matclutter, Ryoji\_Akimoto, eric, EricFreese, SteveKotrch, wmanis, BillKasdorf

Regrets: Markys Gylling, Norm Walsh

# Administrative items #

## Minutes from prior call ##

Approved.

## Other ##

BillM: get feedback on Design Principles doc this week if you have any

BillM: NOTE: if you are on IRC, no need to do "PRESENT"

BillM: please send only your email address to get wiki access, NOT password - and only AFTER setting up a Google Account matching that email address. Thanks!

Garth: encourage coords to think about whether calls are needed, how often, etc.

Garth: please post your plan on the Wiki

Garth: one missing item, there are 15 or 20 items in 2.0.1 that were put off to "future directions", I plan to put them into buckets for appropriate subgroups to look at

Garth: looks like this time on Thurs will be the winning time but we won't make final call w/out Markus

Garth: hopefully that will happen in email before nex week

GeorgeK: Poetry and other future directions may fit into more than one group, like text.

George: ads coord - volunteer? know any candidate - let me know and I'll email them

# New Action Items #

> - Mike Smith to investigate membership agmt. vs. corporate NDA/privacy banners on emails to group

# Subgroup status reports #

## annotations ##

WillM: need to get more concrete examples of use cases, also have private emails that I'd like to share w/ entire group but they have "this email is private" banners. Please remove that banner from bottom if you want comments to be shareable.

WillM: con call will come after more use case examples have been provided

George: open to input from non-subgroup members?

WillM: I welcome from anyone

WillM: I find it useful to have specific examples

## EGLS ##

Murata: over 20 members now, want experts in other (non-Asian) languages

Murata: please let me know if you have suggestions

BillK: Murata, I can very likely recruit you a good person for Arabic if you need that.

Murata: subgroup has started to create requirements, plan to solicit input through July 15, and hope to finish requirements by end of this month

Garth: planned F2F?

Murata: pre-announcement sent w/ date and confirmed location in Sapporo, and hotel info etc.

Murata: will soon send formal/final announcement and ask for registrations, this meeting is open to every member of EPUB WG, not only to EGLS subgroup

Murata: trying to invite experts such as SG2, W3C SVG, etc., perhaps W3C CSS

EricM: I guess you can count me as a SC2 expert: I am the chair of the US Tag to SC2, and I am also an officer of Unicode.

KarenB: There was a request for attendance by tc100's ebook committee . I have not gotten a response yet.

Murata: Both of us are friends of Hiura-san.

KBroome: For the meeting in Sapporo

Murata: EGLS:  I forgot to say that the EGLS subgroup has not start teleconferences.  Will do after the July 15 deadline or the F2F.

Karen: interest from TC100 in attending Sapporo meeting - possible?

Garth: it should be open to those bringing expertise

Murata: not sure whether Sapporo event is best venue for TC100 vs. EPUB discussion, phone conference is also planned

Murata: Sapporo meeting is about requirements gathering and possible solutions, not integration/alignment

Murata: "harmonization" has to be out of scope for that meeting or it will take all the time and we won't discuss requirements

George: TC100 - I thought that was primarily devices/screens/batteries etc.

Karen: not entirely

Karen: as we go into rich media there is experience there, it is device centric but there is useful experience no matter what path the work takes

Murata: not sure if EPUB leadership will be at Sapporo meeting

Garth: idea of one of leadership to be there (TBD)

Garth: perhaps more than one

Garth: leave this as discussion point

## metadata ##

BillK: weekly call set on Tues, working to recruit invited experts from other orgs, getting good responses

BillK: for example, someone w/ lots of expertise on library metadata

BillK: hoping Dianne Kennedy may represent PRISM

Dianne: yes

Dianne: we are looking at our own use cases

Dianne: will start an activity on this on July 7, starting with use case for sending content to eReaders, with metadata first on list

## navigation ##

George: join us if you want to be included, fairly straightforward (based on DAISY evolution)

## text ##

Garth: Markus regrets, he's planning to get subgroup conf calls going, looking for optimal times

Garth: please look at it and sign up as appropriate

## styling & layout ##

Brady: sent call for participation, over 20 on wiki page, seeded a couple of reqs to get things started & requested folks add to it (whether they will be addressed is another story)

Brady: wants reqs by mid July in order to hit deadlines, not hard cutoff but goal

Garth: planning email not calls?

Brady: yes, if that fails, maybe calls

## rich media & interactivity ##

Peter: will invite people to interactivity group later today and we'll start going

RicW: if you have use cases please send them to me or Peter (who is actual coord)

## advertising ##

Garth: no coord yet - please volunteer!