**Note** - this telcon is held at 21:00 UTC - [find the meeting time in your geographical location](http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?month=08&day=04&year=2010&hour=21&min=0&sec=0&p1=0).

**Note** - Catherine Zekri is recording the Epub Revision conference calls and face to face meetings for her research. She writes: "This discussion will be recorded for the purpose of a doctoral research on the standardizing of .epub and eBooks. For confidentiality purposes no names will be disclosed in any publication resulting from this research." To learn more, please visit: http://sites.google.com/site/ebooksandsociety.



## Regrets ##
Bill Kasdorf, Bill McCoy (second half), Murata Makoto

## Previous minutes ##
Accept [previous minutes](MeetingMinutes100728.md)?

## Previous action item review ##

## Timeline updates ##
Dealing with the summer delay. Proposal for discussion:
  * requirements phase (inc prioritization) remains open til 27th; then full freeze
  * implementation proposal production can start in parallel, as long as the group is ready to accept dealing with the impact of changes in requirements (within their group or others) during this period
  * the first working draft will be some weeks delayed (an editor group is being created, and will start preparations to minimize the timeline damage)
  * charter end date not impacted

## Review and prioritization process, cont'd ##
  * All should now be reviewing sub-group requirements
    * Sub-group coordinators take first prioritization pass
      * follow the [Conboy grading system](Process#Prioritization_scheme.md) (see [Navigation](Navigation.md) for example)
    * annotate all interdependencies (implementation proposals must be built with collaboration between interdependent groups)

## Subgroup status report ##
Sub-group coordinators should:
  * Enumerate any requirements that should be given special review attention
  * Enumerate any groups/pairs of requirements that may be in conflict or need to be balanced
  * Raise any issues
  * Present any area for which current requirements seem to be lacking
  * Provide an early summary of going-forward implementation/development plans

### Annotations ###
Coordinator: Will Manis

Wiki: [Annotations](Annotations.md)

### EGLS ###
Coordinator: Murata Makoto

Wiki: [EGLS](EGLS.md)

### Metadata ###
Coordinator: Bill Kasdorf

Wiki: [Metadata](Metadata.md)

### Navigation ###
Coordinator: George Kerscher

Wiki: [Navigation](Navigation.md)

### Text Content ###
Coordinator: Markus Gylling

Wiki: [TextContent](TextContent.md)

### Styling and Layout ###
Coordinator: Brady Duga

Wiki: [StylingAndLayout](StylingAndLayout.md)

### Rich Media/Interactivity/Advertisements ###
Coordinator: Peter Sorotokin

Wiki: [RichMediaAndInteractivity](RichMediaAndInteractivity.md)

## Scripting - current issue status ##
  * Recap of list discussions so far - are we approaching a consensus strawman solution?
  * Dedicated VF2F for this issue?

## AOB (Any Other Business) ##