Note - this telcon is held at 21:00 UTC - [find the meeting time in your geographical location](http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?month=06&day=8&year=2010&hour=21&min=0&sec=0&p1=0).



# Attendees #

  * Jeff Alexander
  * Steve Arany
  * Karen Broome
  * Mei-Li Chin
  * Garth Conboy
  * Dave Cramer
  * Liza Daly
  * Brady Duga
  * Marisa DeMeglio
  * Keith Fahlgren
  * Guy Fain
  * Eric Freese
  * Andrew (Gilbert?)
  * Dave Gunn
  * Markus Gylling (chair)
  * Tom Hadfield
  * Michael Hsieh
  * Kenny Johar
  * Kahade
  * George Kerscher
  * Tommy Lee
  * Will Manis
  * Bill McCoy (scribe)
  * Chris Mitchell
  * Eliot Ning
  * Jon Noring
  * Paul Norton
  * Michael Olenick
  * Pat Pagano
  * James Pritchett
  * Gregory Rosmaita
  * Daihei Shiohama
  * Michael Smith
  * Kyoji Tahara
  * Joshua Tallent
  * Shu Tanabe
  * Ben Trafford
  * King Wai
  * John Waite
  * Roger Webster
  * Ric Wright
  * Adam Witwer
  * Elizabeth Young
  * Catherine Zekri

# Action Items #

  * Ben: make sure IDPF.org website has calendar feature for WG meetings etc.
  * George: get back with reply on level of openness of WG ephemera

# Agenda #
## Introduction ##
If possible, please join the IRC channel instead of noting your presence over the phone.

Reminder: final charter version at [http://www.idpf.org/idpf\_groups/IDPF-EPUB-WG-Charter-4-27-2010.html](http://www.idpf.org/idpf_groups/IDPF-EPUB-WG-Charter-4-27-2010.html).

## Call recordings ##
As Catherine Zekri did with the Maintenance Group discussions, she would like to record the Epub Revision conference calls and face to face meetings for her research. She writes: "This discussion will be recorded for the purpose of a doctoral research on the standardizing of .epub and eBooks. For confidentiality purposes no names will be disclosed in any publication resulting from this research." To learn more, please visit: http://sites.google.com/site/ebooksandsociety.

## Operating procedures ##
### Tools ###
  * wiki (for drafts, proposals etc)
  * issue tracker
  * SVN/HQ (for spec and schema development)
  * IRC (used for telcons, F2Fs, VF2Fs, and as general hangout)
  * The WG emailing list is the formal communication channel

... any additions/further suggestions?

### Telcons ###
  * minutes will be taken live in IRC (by the secretary (Bill), if unavailable by volunteer scribe)
  * attendees are encouraged to join the IRC channel... <ul>
<ul><li>to note their presence there instead of over phone (saves time and hassle)<br>
</li><li>to enable text-based contributions during the meeting<br>
</li><li>draft minutes posted ASAP after the call<br>
</li><li>each call starts by WG accepting minutes from previous con, noting any amendments<br>
</li><li>action items are recorded in the minutes using the prefix <pre><code>ACTION: {name of assignee}</code></pre>, ultimately collected at the top of the minutes<br>
</li><li>action item progress review is a standing initial telcon agendum</li></ul>

<blockquote>... any additions/further suggestions?</blockquote>

<h3>Telcon day and time</h3>
<b>expect weekly telcons<br></b> during or immediately after the June 15-16 F2F, a recurring week day and time will be established<br>
<br>
<h3>F2Fs</h3>
Expect at least one additional F2F, likely two<br>
Plan to hold virtual F2Fs (VF2Fs) as well<br>
<br>
<br>
<h2>Revision process</h2>
<h3>Timelines in charter (reminder)</h3>
<ul><li>September 2010: FPWD (first public working draft, need not be feature complete)<br>
</li><li>December 2010: PWD (public working draft)<br>
</li><li>January 2011: DSFTU (draft standard for trial use)<br>
</li><li>May 15 2011: final recommendation</li></ul>

<h3>Process suggestion #1</h3>
(Note: process details to be finalized at F2F)<br>
<br>
A three-step process:<br>
<br>
# Blueprint development<br>
# FPWD (late September)<br>
# Iterations; further drafts (October, November, December)<br>
<br>
<h4>Characteristics of the blueprint method</h4>

<ul><li>the actual spec and schemas are written as late as possible in the process<br>
</li><li>instead, begin by describing the ''change set'' (vis-as-vis epub-current) in compact form<br>
</li><li>''one'' entry point wiki page with top-level themes, grouping ''change items''<br>
</li><li>during resolution process, the entry page fans out to pages with more detailed discussions, change proposals, etc, for each item<br>
</li><li>once a change item is accepted by the WG, the entry page summarizes all central facts about it (directives)<br>
</li><li>can distinguish between evolutionary and revolutionary features; where evolutionary changes need not be qualified with use-case descriptions/rationale.<br>
</li><li>primarily used during inception/discovery phase: conventional issue tracking eventually takes over.</li></ul>

Sketch of blueprint entry point page: @@@ link TODO @@@<br>
<br>
<h4>Purpose and benefits of the blueprint method</h4>

<ul><li>enables WG members to swiftly acquire and maintain a holistic view of all changes without getting lost in details<br>
</li><li>easier to track dependencies/collisions<br>
</li><li>reduces need for (costly and risky) spec refactorings - agility during the design and discovery stage</li></ul>

... comments, thoughts, alternative suggestions?<br>
<br>
<h2>F2F agenda</h2>
Refer to <a href='http://code.google.com/p/epub-revision/wiki/F2F201006Agenda#Overview'>draft agenda overview</a>.<br>
<br>
<ul><li>Call-in options<br>
</li><li>Optional dinner tuesday night?<br>
</li><li>other administrivia...?</li></ul>


<h3>Lightning talks: signups</h3>
Exact time for each lightning talk and following plenary TBD. Expect no more than 20 minutes (5+15) per talk, perhaps even less (5+10).<br>
<br>
<h1>Minutes (draft)</h1>

<h2>housekeeping matters</h2>

Katherine: for postdoctoral research I will be recording these discussions. If you would like to know more please visit my website, as per agenda. I will gladly answer all of your questions, thank you.<br>
<br>
Markus: for maintenance group, we did this recording as well. Is there anyone in this group who objects?<br>
<br>
Bill McCoy: make it a policy to mute if you are not speaking<br>
<br>
Markus: we are preparing the tools we want to use, Ben is helping to get them up. Wiki to produce drafts, have discussions & proposals, and so on.<br>
<br>
Ben: not far at all from being live<br>
<br>
Markus: agenda location at daisy.org is temporary, we will use Wiki for telecon agendas<br>
<br>
Markus: we will have issue tracker as well, and be making a pretty large revision to the way specs and schemas are written and maintained, via source code repository.<br>
<br>
Markus: we do advise you to hook up to IRC, we will be using this during F2F, virtual F2F meetings, subgroup work, as well as conf calls<br>
<br>
Keith Fahlgren: Will the IRC channel's logs be saved and posted?<br>
<br>
??: internet for F2F?<br>
<br>
Mike: per Liisa we will have WiFi for sure<br>
<br>
Chris: I will check<br>
<br>
Keith Fahlgren: For those experiencing problems with IRC connectivity: We'll try to debug it in person next week<br>
<br>
Markus: email list remains primary channel for communication<br>
<br>
Markus: calendarium?<br>
<br>
Ben: new IDPF site has the capability<br>
<br>
Ben: free XML editing tools exist - can we use native XML editing tools this time, with multiple output streams?<br>
<br>
Markus: not on agenda today, today we're talking about tooling for WG not editors<br>
<br>
<br>
Markus: first telcon agenda item will be action item review. Most likely looking at weekly calls, will settle schedule during F2F, likely we will stick with this time. main option will be which day to pick given all the global attendees inc. Australia. F2F, we should be prepared for 2 or 3, as well we should try virtual F2F, a day long session with Skype/IRC/conf call, which W3C has used successfully for certain types of work<br>
<br>
<h2>Revision Process</h2>

Markus: revision process, you've seen the charter and the timeline. It looks to me like the most aggressive part is the first run to get to WD in Sep. chair & president et. al. have been talking to see what process to use, we have a suggestion (preliminary). we hope to spend time the 2nd day of F2F of how to design the first phase. There are notes in the agenda about the "blueprint" method - keeping agile for first part, avoiding specs/schemas as long as possible,<br>
instead building a compact Wiki-based document that collects all the agreed changes, not too many details in initial stages, overarching changes & nature, we will be working Wiki-based for quite a long time. Garth: what is reasonable date- Sep 32 or 33 ;-)<br>
<br>
Garth: we will have to get through first phase and looking at 13 items on charter. We won't make it unless we have subgroups, so this should be on agenda.<br>
<br>
Markus: yes, we need to run parallel<br>
<br>
Markus: any comments or thoughts at this point around process?<br>
<br>
Garth: had chat w/ Peter Sorotokin & Ric Wright from Adobe, Peter is going to make some of call, but is in Hawaii for 3 weeks, he had one concern, as we divided the problems into 13 items, his concerns is that we identify specific requirements & requirements to resolve, as opposed to just starting out with potential solutions without regard to whehter they are addressing specific requirements<br>
<br>
Markus: we can distinguish between evolutionary and revolutionary, esp. in category of revolutionary, the requirements for understanding use cases is important, that should be task of subgroups<br>
<br>
<h2>F2F Agenda: Overall</h2>

Markus: placeholder published, it suggests that we make use of fact that if previous patterns prevail, this will be meeting with largest attendance we will have in the process. More know-how around the table next week than ever again. so we want to dedicate the first day to "lightning talks"; the idea is to go into problem list and for each topic we will invite lightning speeches about problem, effect on ecosystem if addressed properly, possibly talking about potential solutions, to try to get as much of our collective knowledge as possible thrown out into the air in one day as a way to help us get oriented in matters that we aren't necessarily dealing with each day, and identifying people to work in subgroups<br>
<br>
Markus: that's day one, day two is then dedicated to two matters, the first is because we will have a plenary in the morning to discuss core problems identified in day one<br>
<br>
Markus: some problems in charter are relatively trivial to address, others definitely non-trivial, these latter are the ones we should spend time talking about.<br>
second part of day two is organizational, setting out the blueprint, milestones, subgroups, etc.<br>
<br>
<h2>F2F Agenda: Lightning Talks</h2>

Markus: lightning talks - we don't know how many want to do it, we have time limits, we will collect names & suggestions now and chairs will go over list later; if we find we have too many talkers we will have to do some undemocratic and cold hearted filtering. But this is an informal decision-free session. You will have several months to voice your POV and solutions etc. Do not feel offended if by any xchance you do not make the talk list.<br>
<br>
There are a number of bullets that represent overarching categories, instead of 14 items there 2 problems left out: lack of formal standardization and HTML5; all the other topics should be in there, but I have arranged a few in buckets to provide a start at a taxonomy.<br>
<br>
Markus: first bucket is semantics, stuff like mathematics, articles, dictionary, also a bucket for layout/rendering/CSS type issues, etc. Let's go through each bucket and see who wants to talk.<br>
<br>
<h3>F2F Lightning Talks: Semantics</h3>

[Markus: already 3 names here - Will, to talk about ads per your request<br>
<br>
Will: fine<br>
<br>
Markus: JeffAlexander, dictionaries?<br>
<br>
JeffAlexander: happy to speak to dictionaries<br>
<br>
Markus: Neil, math?<br>
<br>
NeilS: happy to do MathML, if anyone has specific issues please contact me via email or IRC<br>
<br>
Markus: rich media - do we have anyone willing to do lightning talk?<br>
<br>
Marissa: rich media & DAISY media feature<br>
<br>
<h3>F2F Lightning Talks: Interactivity</h3>

Garth: I think there's a whole area of discussion about our approach to rich media & interactivity, whether it should be holistic vs. islands, that should be an area of discussion<br>
<br>
LizaDaly: Agree with Garth<br>
<br>
Markus: Sure, but I'm curious in understanding about primary use cases<br>
<br>
George, Ben: textbooks<br>
<br>
Ben: interactivity talk<br>
<br>
Ric Wright: rich media & interactivity intertwined, why split?<br>
<br>
Markus: charter wins in terms of categories, OK to do lightning talk on both<br>
<br>
Keith Fahlgren: We should ensure that we use the IDPF relationship with DAISY to gain their wisdom about many of these issues, even if the best place isn't the F2F.<br>
<br>
<br>
Ric Wright: we have strong interest in this area, at Adobe, happy to just participate in general discussion<br>
<br>
Garth: we want to talk about how to use HTML5 and <code>object</code> so throw our names in there<br>
<br>
Diane: Peter Meirs would like to discuss metadata for magazines<br>
<br>
Markus: I may want to sign up to talk about possibility of using RDF/A as metadata container language<br>
<br>
Brady: are lightning talks intended to present problem, solution, list of possible solutions, or ??<br>
<br>
Markus: primarily to describe problem, needs of ecosystem, to make it clear in the words of an expert in the field, why we need to add something to the spec. I realized as I said the RDF/A thing it's too early for that<br>
<br>
Markus: however, when it comes to ONIX, is that your area Bill Kasdorf?<br>
<br>
Bill Kasdorf: Yes, inc. PRISM<br>
<br>
Markus: maybe you can do a lightning talk via phone<br>
Bill Kasdorf: sure<br>
<br>
Markus: annotations?<br>
<br>
Ben: me<br>
<br>
Will: its a huge problem, there's public & private, as use move into the space of public annots you get into security space, I thought it might be useful to start toh discuss security implications. Ruby is down as semantic thing, but there are correlations with annotations, I've treated Ruby as annotations in prior implementations of Japanese system, there's semantic issue of markup and rendering issue, they are orthogonal issues<br>
<br>
Markus: let's discuss at F2F<br>
<br>
George: have been thinking about annotations for a long time, when we have lightning talks, if some issues don't get brought up, will we have an oppty to table other things even though we didn't sign up for a talk<br>
<br>
Markus: I don't see why not as long as we have the time<br>
<br>
George: when it's actually a broader scope I don't want to limit the issue<br>
<br>
<br>
<h3>F2F Lightning Talks: textual content</h3>

Markus: I'd like to sign up on how to inject book specific semantics into HTML<br>
<br>
Ben: me, for general discussion of where smenatics fit in<br>
<br>
Diane & Peter: us<br>
<br>
Makoto: I am concerned about separating Ruby from rest of CJK<br>
<br>
Markus: not a problem, we can put them together again<br>
<br>
Markus: can you or someone else speak about CJK issues?<br>
<br>
Takeshi: will talk about CJK<br>
<br>
???: non latin languages in general?<br>
<br>
Makoto: some will be specific to CJK, some more general<br>
<br>
Makoto: since I can't attend, I can prepare some presentation slide and ask someone to introduce it, is that OK?<br>
<br>
<h3>F2F Lightning Talks: page layout and multiple display surfaces</h3>

Ric Wright: me<br>
<br>
Brady: would like to hear from content creators<br>
<br>
Brady: me for multiple display surfaces<br>
<br>
Mei-Li Chin from Taiwan: me for CJK<br>
<br>
Markus: someone from DAISY should discuss proposed improvements to navigation for EPUB<br>
<br>
George: me and you<br>
<br>
<h3>F2F Lightning Talks: accessibility</h3>

George: me<br>
<br>
Markus: speech synthesizer pronunciation<br>
<br>
Ben: text content, layout, is that where we talk about limitations of CSS for styling XML or is that about extensibility?<br>
<br>
Markus: I don't know, it's going to come up all over the place<br>
<br>
Ben: me for that under layout<br>
<br>
<h3>F2F Lightning Talks: extensibility</h3>

Ben: me<br>
<br>
Markus: we have initial list of speakers, chairs/scribes will clean this up, merge the bullets that shouldn't have been separated, and produce first list of speakers<br>
<br>
Markus: we will post to the list and give people a chance to put people in further assuming there's time<br>
<br>
KingWai: we have been studying electronic textbook for 6 months and collecting requirements from local vendors, can I talk about this including rich media, interactivity,annotations, and Ruby? Not sure where it fits in<br>
<br>
Markus: sounds interesting, we'll figure out where to put you, not a problem to cover several categories<br>
<br>
KingWai: we have use case scenarios, not solutions,  we do have current electronic textbook solution, but not yet an EPUB solution yet<br>
<br>
Makoto: KingWai, have you seen the minimal requirement documents from Japan?  Comments are very welcome.<br>
<br>
James: why were 7/13 left of lightning list?<br>
<br>
Markus: 13 is web standards<br>
<br>
Makoto, no could you pass along the pointer to me? My email is kingwai@astri.org<br>
<br>
Markus: 7 is a solution not a problem, it is going to show up for various problems as part of a solution<br>
<br>
George: we may have a subcommittee to figure out NISO/ISO directions, and have had some talks about that, probably a group forming to address that<br>
<br>
<br>
<h2>administrivia</h2>

Markus: we will have call in options, we will have remote attendees, Mike do we have Skype?<br>
<br>
Mike: in next day or two<br>
<br>
George: good mike(s)/mixer that'd be great<br>
<br>
Mike: likely optional dinner Tues evening, 7:30 approx, people will be asked to RSVP, hosted by IDPF<br>
<br>
George: we'll review policies & procedures and at beginning of meeting will ensure people have read it and ensure we conform to bylaws and are kosher wrt antitrust<br>
<br>
Mike: thanks, will find out about kosher and bring own food<br>
<br>
???: is lcdist minutes logs - public internal or guaranteed to public or what?<br>
<br>
Keith Fahlgren: I would prefer a default-public rather than default-private policy for our work.<br>
<br>
Ben: members site has wiki, issue tracker, accessible by any IDPF member, if IRC logs are there then they will be in same place<br>
<br>
George: let me check w/ Makoto and people in other standards orgs if there's a problem w/ keeping internal work behind closed doors or if there's need for transparency for public standards, I don't know the answer<br>
<br>
Makoto: wherever possible it should be public. Both SC34/WG4 and the OASIS ODF TC try to disclose everthing to the public, but we are sometimes constrained by the JTC1 procedure or OASIS directives.<br>
<br>
???: if we do plan to make it an open archive we can't have email restrictions as are on someone's footers<br>
<br>
GuyFain: It seems like we could only gain positive press for keeping a public veneer to our adding support for more languages/functionality...<br>
<br>
karenbroome: Most of the standards I work on become public upon publication. The internal committee proceedings are private.<br>
<br>
Makoto: My opinin: disclose everything to the public whenever possible<br>
<br>
karenbroome: You can create confusion by releasing in process work that changes, Not sure what's best here, It's something for the by-laws and rules of participation.<br>
<br>
BillMcCoy: I favor "no expectation of privacy" even if we decide to keep it private<br>
<br>
GuyFain: It's easier to be public about intentions, and private about implementation, until it's finalized.<br>
<br>
Garth: I could agree with that, Bill.<br>
<br>
Markus: 6 minutes over, thanks for time hope to see all of you packed with caffeine on Tues AM<br>
<br>
Ben Trafford: I favor private with planned public releases of info.<br>
<br>
