recording: 101013 (unverified)

### Attendees ###
Garth, Brady, ShuTanabe, jiang-chun, MURATA, BillMcCoy, DaveGunn, Ryoji\_Akimoto, wen-hsuan, James\_Pritchett, DanHughes, George, marisa\_demeglio, Si-Wei, Takeshi, BillKasdorf, liza, ChoChin, mikeidpf, Mei-Li, NeilS, DaveM

### Prev Action Item Review ###

None.

### Topic -- OCF changes related to updating to newer versions of XML Encryption & XML Signatures. ###

James\_Pritchett: The main issue is whether we reference 1.1

James\_Pritchett: 1.1 is due "real soon now"

MURATA: That's my understanding too

James\_Pritchett: So the open question for the group is:  do we urgently need the functionality of 1.1?

James\_Pritchett: Compatibility is no problem

James\_Pritchett: (as far as I understand)

James\_Pritchett: Added functionality is detailed on wiki page

James\_Pritchett: Mostly new-and-improved algorithms, etc.

gc: Changes @ 1.1 are on Wiki -- groups should review.

James\_Pritchett: Use cases would be helpful

DaveM: Apple re XML Signatures 1.1: on an issue raised earlier (XML Security 1.1) I can chime in from Apple's perspective that we don't have a problem with XML Security 1.1, but neither do we feel it offers anything we urgently need.

### Topic -- F-to-F -- update on the Wiki. ###

gc: "Birds of a feather" tables at dinner on Monday -- though, hopefully there will be a drinking table.  :-)

gc: New Wiki Page -- "implementation pipeline page"

gc: Virtual attendance @ F-to-F.  Audio?

gc: Proposal: IRC only, no voice/Skype.  No voiced problems with that suggestion.

### Topic -- attendance @ TPAC in France in November? ###

gc: Brady: somebody with familiarity with OCF/HTML/CSS using in EPUB should be there.

gc: Volunteer remains unresolved -- action item for Markus & George.

gc: Perhaps Markus

### Topic -- sub-group updates. ###

Annotations: openbookmarks.org -- just getting started -- no meat there yet.

Annotations: Will Manis to contact openbookmarks.org folks.

EGLS: EGLS draft recommendations being developed for WG review.

Metadata: Emerging consensus that RDFa be used to express metadata.

Text: Apple dictionary schema/directions to (hopefully) be showed during F-to-F.

Styling and Layout: group should propose solutions that remain on the "at risk requirements" on the Wiki.

### Topic -- Discussion of state of W3C standards (that we may want to reference) -- candidate recommendation, in particular. ###

Discussion; resolve @ F-to-F

### Scripting ###

gc: Defer until F-to-F?

PeterS: describes current proposed solution.

Liza: I've been through those discussions as they were being proposed and I'm fine with the current proposal

gc: Lisa's above comment is relevant to determining OPS 2.0.1 (classic), versus HMLT5, versus scripted HTML5 in manifest.

gc: Perhaps a "final" decision @ F-to-F?

Liza: please :)