# Introduction #

JOINED: [MeetBot](MeetBot.md) [2010/10/13 22:56:46]

JOINED: [ShuTanabe](ShuTanabe.md) [2010/10/13 22:56:58]

JOINED: [jiang-chun] [2010/10/13 22:58:22]

JOINED: [MURATA](MURATA.md) [2010/10/13 22:58:29]

JOINED: [BillMcCoy](BillMcCoy.md) [2010/10/13 22:59:21]

JOINED: [DaveGunn](DaveGunn.md) [2010/10/13 23:00:19]

JOINED: [Ryoji\_Akimoto](Ryoji_Akimoto.md) [2010/10/13 23:00:31]

[MURATA](MURATA.md) I hear a lot of noise.

[BillMcCoy](BillMcCoy.md) can everyone mute?

[MURATA](MURATA.md) only me??

[BillMcCoy](BillMcCoy.md) I am hearing it too, horrible

[BillMcCoy](BillMcCoy.md) I believe there is feedback from somewhere

JOINED: [wen-hsuan] [2010/10/13 23:01:43]

[wmanis](wmanis.md) me too

JOINED: [James\_Pritchett](James_Pritchett.md) [2010/10/13 23:02:00]

[DaveGunn](DaveGunn.md) sounds too loud to be an open mic

JOINED: [DanHughes](DanHughes.md) [2010/10/13 23:02:06]

[mgylling](mgylling.md) everybody please mute

JOINED: [George](George.md) [2010/10/13 23:02:34]

JOINED: [marisa\_demeglio](marisa_demeglio.md) [2010/10/13 23:02:42]

JOINED: [Si-Wei] [2010/10/13 23:02:48]

PART: [George](George.md) [2010/10/13 23:02:49]

JOINED: [George](George.md) [2010/10/13 23:02:49]

JOINED: [Takeshi](Takeshi.md) [2010/10/13 23:03:03]

JOINED: [BillKasdorf](BillKasdorf.md) [2010/10/13 23:03:04]

[George](George.md) When I dial in I get noise do others?

[mgylling](mgylling.md) can anyone hear me?

[marisa\_demeglio](marisa_demeglio.md) yes

[DanHughes](DanHughes.md) yes

[DaveGunn](DaveGunn.md) yep

[Takeshi](Takeshi.md) yes

[BillKasdorf](BillKasdorf.md) Yes

[KingWai](KingWai.md) yes

[BillKasdorf](BillKasdorf.md) I got the noise but called back in and it worked fine on the second try

JOINED: [liza](liza.md) [2010/10/13 23:04:15]

JOINED: [BradyDuga](BradyDuga.md) [2010/10/13 23:04:28]

JOINED: [ChoChin](ChoChin.md) [2010/10/13 23:04:37]

[marisa\_demeglio](marisa_demeglio.md) when i press **6, it says "i'm sorry, this feature is not enabled"**

[liza](liza.md) Me yoo

[liza](liza.md) Me too

[DanHughes](DanHughes.md) same

[James\_Pritchett](James_Pritchett.md) Me three

[BillKasdorf](BillKasdorf.md) I'm getting "this feature is not enabled" when I do **6**

[BradyDuga](BradyDuga.md) I get "you are now muted"

JOINED: [mikeidpf](mikeidpf.md) [2010/10/13 23:05:48]

[BillKasdorf](BillKasdorf.md) I can mute my own Blackberry without doing **6**

JOINED: [Mei-Li] [2010/10/13 23:06:38]

[BradyDuga](BradyDuga.md) We could have an irc conference

[BradyDuga](BradyDuga.md) Garth really wants to

JOINED: [gc](gc.md) [2010/10/13 23:07:24]

[George](George.md) Mike: let the operator know that we have all but admins muted

[gc](gc.md) I guess I can scribe -- in the now style -- only decisions.

[mgylling](mgylling.md) thanks

[gc](gc.md) Note that Dave @ Apple can't IRC>

[mikeidpf](mikeidpf.md) 1Price Conference going to find and drop offending line in next minute or two

[gc](gc.md) What about being at the meeting in France?

[gc](gc.md) Topic -- OCF changes related to updating to newer versions of XML Encryption & XML Signatures.

[James\_Pritchett](James_Pritchett.md) The main issue is whether we reference 1.1

[James\_Pritchett](James_Pritchett.md) 1.1 is due "real soon now"

[MURATA](MURATA.md) That's my understanding too

JOINED: [NeilS](NeilS.md) [2010/10/13 23:10:49]

[James\_Pritchett](James_Pritchett.md) So the open question for the group is:  do we urgently need the functionality of 1.1?

[James\_Pritchett](James_Pritchett.md) COmpatibility is no problem

[James\_Pritchett](James_Pritchett.md) (as far as I understand)

[James\_Pritchett](James_Pritchett.md) Added functionality is detailed on wiki page

[James\_Pritchett](James_Pritchett.md) Mostly new-and-improved algorithms, etc.

[gc](gc.md) Changes @ 1.1 are on Wiki -- groups should review.

[James\_Pritchett](James_Pritchett.md) Use cases would be helpful

QUIT: [ChoChin](ChoChin.md) [2010/10/13 23:14:08]

[gc](gc.md) Topic -- F-to-F -- update on the Wiki.

QUIT: [Mei-Li] [2010/10/13 23:17:03]

JOINED: [Mei-Li] [2010/10/13 23:19:16]

[gc](gc.md) "Birds of a feather" tables at dinner on Monday -- though, hopefully there will be a drinking table.

[gc](gc.md) New Wiki Page -- "implementation pipeline page"

JOINED: [ChoChin](ChoChin.md) [2010/10/13 23:22:37]

[gc](gc.md) Virtual attendance @ F-to-F.  Audio?

QUIT: [Mei-Li] [2010/10/13 23:24:03]

JOINED: [Mei-Li] [2010/10/13 23:24:27]

[gc](gc.md) Proposal: IRC only, no voice/Skype.  No voiced problems with that suggestion.

[gc](gc.md) Topic -- attendance @ TPAC in France in November?

[gc](gc.md) Brady: somebody with familiarity with OCF/HTML/CSS using in EPUB should be there.

[gc](gc.md) Volunteer remains unresolved -- action item for Markus & George.

[gc](gc.md) Topic -- sub-group updates.

QUIT: [Mei-Li] [2010/10/13 23:30:28]

JOINED: [Mei-Li] [2010/10/13 23:30:39]

[gc](gc.md) openbookmarks.org -- just getting started -- no meat there yet.

[kennyw3c](kennyw3c.md)thank you for mentioning TPAC :) (action)

[gc](gc.md) Will Manis to contact openbookmarks.org folks.

[gc](gc.md) EGLS draft recommendations being developed for WG review.

[gc](gc.md) Topic -- Discussion of state of W3C standards (that we may want to reference) -- candidate recommendation, in particular.

[gc](gc.md) [you're breaking up](Bill.md)

[gc](gc.md) Apple re XML Signatures 1.1: on an issue raised earlier (XML Security 1.1) I can chime in from Apple's perspective that we don't have a problem with XML Security 1.1, but neither do we feel it offers anything we urgently need.

[gc](gc.md) Emerging consensus that RDFa be used to express metadata.

QUIT: [mikew3c](mikew3c.md) [2010/10/13 23:43:18]

PART: [Kyoji](Kyoji.md) [2010/10/13 23:43:47]

QUIT: [Mei-Li] [2010/10/13 23:46:13]

[gc](gc.md) Apple dictionary schema/directions to (hopefully) be showed during F-to-F.

JOINED: [Mei-Li] [2010/10/13 23:46:59]

JOINED: [Dana](Dana.md) [2010/10/13 23:47:10]

[gc](gc.md) Styling and Layout -- group should propose solutions that remain on the "at risk requirements" on the Wiki.

[gc](gc.md) Topic -- Scripting.

[gc](gc.md) Defer until F-to-F?

[gc](gc.md) Peter S -- describes current proposed solution.

QUIT: [Mei-Li] [2010/10/13 23:53:13]

[George](George.md) George had to drop off. See you in sfo

QUIT: [George](George.md) [2010/10/13 23:53:44]

QUIT: [James\_Pritchett](James_Pritchett.md) [2010/10/13 23:57:00]

QUIT: [BillMcCoy](BillMcCoy.md) [2010/10/13 23:57:18]

[gc](gc.md) Scribe needs to drop off shortly -- probably no need to capture recorded discussion.

QUIT: [Dana](Dana.md) [2010/10/14 00:01:28]

[liza](liza.md) I've been through those discussions as they were being proposed and I'm fine with the current proposal

[gc](gc.md) Lisa's above comment is relevant to determining OPS 2.0.1 (classic), versus HMLT5, versus scripted HTML5 in manifest.

[gc](gc.md) Perhaps a "final" decision @ F-to-F?

[liza](liza.md) LiZa, please :)

[gc](gc.md) Markus, can you send me log of this IRC for Wiki posting (as text)?

QUIT: [DanHughes](DanHughes.md) [2010/10/14 00:05:41]

QUIT: [gc](gc.md) [2010/10/14 00:05:43]

QUIT: [KingWai](KingWai.md) [2010/10/14 00:05:44]

QUIT: [DaveGunn](DaveGunn.md) [2010/10/14 00:05:46]

QUIT: [BradyDuga](BradyDuga.md) [2010/10/14 00:05:52]

QUIT: [BillKasdorf](BillKasdorf.md) [2010/10/14 00:05:53]

QUIT: [ChoChin](ChoChin.md) [2010/10/14 00:05:55]

QUIT: [liza](liza.md) [2010/10/14 00:05:57]

QUIT: [Takeshi](Takeshi.md) [2010/10/14 00:06:12]

QUIT: [wmanis](wmanis.md) [2010/10/14 00:06:16]

QUIT: [jiang-chun] [2010/10/14 00:06:24]

PART: [mikeidpf](mikeidpf.md) [2010/10/14 00:06:40]

PART: [ShuTanabe](ShuTanabe.md) [2010/10/14 00:07:01]

PART: [Ryoji\_Akimoto](Ryoji_Akimoto.md) [2010/10/14 00:07:05]

QUIT: [wen-hsuan] [2010/10/14 00:08:07]

JOINED: [BradyDuga](BradyDuga.md) [2010/10/14 00:13:51]

JOINED: [gc](gc.md) [2010/10/14 00:14:07]

JOINED: [BillMcCoy](BillMcCoy.md) [2010/10/14 00:20:33]

QUIT: [BradyDuga](BradyDuga.md) [2010/10/14 00:24:26]

QUIT: [NeilS](NeilS.md) [2010/10/14 00:29:56]

JOINED: [mikew3c](mikew3c.md) [2010/10/14 00:44:23]

QUIT: [kennyw3c](kennyw3c.md) [2010/10/14 00:47:05]

QUIT: [mgylling](mgylling.md) [2010/10/14 00:50:41]

JOINED: [mgylling](mgylling.md) [2010/10/14 00:54:27]

[mgylling](mgylling.md) gc, will do

[mgylling](mgylling.md) meetbot, leave