**Note** - this telcon is held at 21:00 UTC - [find the meeting time in your geographical location](http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?month=06&day=24&year=2010&hour=21&min=0&sec=0&p1=0).

**Note** - Catherine Zekri is recording the Epub Revision conference calls and face to face meetings for her research. She writes: "This discussion will be recorded for the purpose of a doctoral research on the standardizing of .epub and eBooks. For confidentiality purposes no names will be disclosed in any publication resulting from this research." To learn more, please visit: http://sites.google.com/site/ebooksandsociety.




## Attendees ##

## Regrets ##
Norm,

## Previous minutes ##
Accept [previous minutes](Telcon20100608.md)?

_We are letting the F2F minutes stay in draft status for a while more_
## New action items ##

## Previous action item review ##
  * <strike><b>George</b>: get back with reply on level of openness of WG ephemera</strike> _DONE: board decision: maximally open_
  * <strike><b>Bill McCoy</b> to create doodle poll to select weekday for full-WG telcons, awaiting conformation from CJKT region on whether 21:00 UTC remains our choice for time</strike> _DONE: awaiting results_
  * **Markus** to create a subgroup template
  * <strike><b>George</b> to solicit Diane K as potential ads subgroup coordinator</strike> _DONE: [discussion in agenda below](#Advertisements.md)_
  * Each subgroup coordinator to get into Google Code and create a subgroup home page

## Subgroups - process overview ##
_(Refer to [Process Overview](F2FDayTwo#Process_overview.md) from the F2F minutes)_

### Subgroup deliverables, role of coordinator ###

### Design principles document ###
Refer to [DesignPrinciples](DesignPrinciples.md)

### Timelines ###

### Logistics ###
  * Separate mailing lists or use main list with subject prefixes?  (Example: `[navigation] subject`)
  * Channels available on our IRC server:
    * epub-nav
    * epub-text-content
    * epub-metadata
    * epub-sl (style and layout)
    * epub-i18n
    * epub-annot
    * epub-rmi (rich media and interactivity)
    * epub-ads

### Requirements example ###
(Note, very rough cut, not a final set) Refer to [Navigation#Requirements](Navigation#Requirements.md)

## Subgroup status report ##

for each group, questions:
  * is the scope/mission clear? (is scope/mission formulated on subgroup wiki page?)
  * need to produce use cases, or go directly for requirements?
  * onset separation between minimal and extended requirements?

### Annotations ###
Coordinator: Will Manis

Wiki: [Annotations](Annotations.md)

### EGLS ###
Coordinator: Murata Makoto

Wiki: [EGLS](EGLS.md)

### Metadata ###
Coordinator: Bill Kasdorf

Wiki:

### Navigation ###
Coordinator: George Kerscher

Wiki: [Navigation](Navigation.md)

### Text Content ###
Coordinator: Markus Gylling

Wiki: [TextContent](TextContent.md)

### Styling and Layout ###
Coordinator: Brady Duga

Wiki: [StylingAndLayout](StylingAndLayout.md)

### Rich Media/Interactivity ###
Coordinator: Peter Sorotokin

Wiki: [RichMediaAndInteractivity](RichMediaAndInteractivity.md)


### Advertisements ###
Coordinator: N/A

Wiki: [Advertising](Advertising.md)

## AOB ##
### weekly telcon time, doodle poll status ###

## Minutes ##

Chair: Markus Gylling

Scribe: Bill McCoy

#### Attendees ####

mikesmith, Daniel Weck, Jon Noring, DaveGunn, Rhys Cazenove, Hadrien Gardeur, Brady Duga, liza, Kyoji\_Tahara, King Wai CHOW, duga, Shu Tanabe, Oliver Carbonel, Norm, keith\_fahlgren, MyNick, BillMcCoy, RogerWebster, Dave Gunn, Kyoji Tahara, George, BLarroque, kenny\_j, KingWai, AdamWitwer, BenTrafford, danielweck, Michael Olenick, kenny johar, awiles, ukotrst, NeilS, Hadrien, ShuTanabe, SteveArany, SteveKotrch, TommyLee, Roger Sperberg, rhys\_enhanceded, mgylling, wmanis, Eric Freese

REGRETS: Peter Sorotokin

### Action Items ###

  1. all WG members submit Google ID to one of the Google Code owners (Garth, Markus, or Bill) and they will give you Write access to Wiki

  1. Brady to get BillK on Wiki

  1. Markus announce need for ads coordinator to WG email list

  1. BillM to send reminder re: Doodle poll

  1. Leadership to publicize email prefixes to use for subgroup-specific mailings


### Subgroups ###

Markus: whether this is the perfect set of subgroups is TBD; we have the ability to change it

Markus: the subgroups are not covering the entire change set that we envision for the next version of EPUB. They are only addressing a set of the problems, not all of them

Markus: for example we know there's a likelihood to deprecate or even entirely remove features from 2.01 because no one implemented them, and 2.01 Maintenance group identified a number of future issues, but we hope these are the most important ones to address. For others we have the issue tracker on Google Code, and will start populating them now (for exampled with future issues identified in Maintenance). When it's a suitable time we can incorporate into the specification process

Markus: we have a 7 step process we are working against, per minutes of F2F. We are somewhere between steps 1 and 2 now, there's 2 distinct steps that subgroups will go through.

Markus: first is to produce a set of requirements, may be preceded by use case descriptions, group can choose in conjunction with chairs whether to do that or not. Features revolutionary in nature it's likely a good idea to produce use case descriptions, for evolutionary features (adjusting or fixing stuff) use case descriptions may not be required

Markus: one we're done with that we move on to the next main step, which is to produce a set of concrete change proposals based on these requirements. These will be imperatives, addressed to the specification: something that shall change and how it shall change. Change proposals need not be fully complete where that is not possible. E.g., may use some CSS3 modules but not necessarily during the summer we must list every single property from CSS3, we have an iteration period in the Autumn where we can settle things at atomic level

Markus: each of these 2 steps will be ended by full group review

Markus: subgroup coordinators primary role is to ensure that we get the deliverables in time (reqs, then change proposals after review/modification of reqs by entire group). In terms of decision making power, the whole working group is the unit of decisions, the subgroups or subgroup coordinators do not make decisions, at least not for contentious issues, it's the whole WG only.

Markus: each subgroup will have an assigned chair rep (Markus, Garth, or Brady) who should be invited to each subgroup meeting, primarily to handle cross sub-group coordination and catch interdependencies early on

Makoto: is it possible to have more than 1 participant from a company in a subgroup? should one be nominated as primary?

George: yes, up to 2 (more w/ chair permission), one should be designated as primary, this assumes they are members of IDPF

???: what about a vote?

Markus: that would go up to the whole WG anyway

Makoto: subgroup should try to clarify issues, advantages & disadvantages, so WG can make a timely decision

Markus: yes, to save ourselves for political and infrastructure problems, using entire WG for decision making is safest approach, but if an issue is elevated the WG must be informed about the problem and what the issues are before any vote takes place

### Design Principles ###

DanielW: http://code.google.com/p/epub-revision/wiki/DesignPrinciples

Markus: we had F2F session on "Core Issues in Need of Early Resolution", the goal was to stabilize design principles. We put a first very early draft online today, linked from agenda, Bill McCoy was the editor. Goal is to help subgroups and WG in decision making down the road

Markus: in case of conflicting proposals, this document will be one of the vehicles for resolving the conflict, if this document can help us distinguish which of two proposals is most aligned with the principles, that will help

Markus: thus we want WG to formally accept this document at some point in time, definitely not today but at some point soon we want to say we have a first version whose content is accepted by the WG. We may produce subsequent versions when new principles come up, but we need a starting point ASAP. Please review and provide comments to the email list

Bill: email or Wiki changes?

KeithF: The wiki also supports Comments

Markus: email, we want Bill to be funnel for changes

BillM: will try not to editorialize...

### First Working Draft: content & schedule ###

Markus: remember first working draft is OK to not be complete, may be missing solutions as long as first WD identifies them, probably pointing to issue tracker and/or Wiki

Markus: ideally there will be early versions of all new features, but will not let omissions of 1-2 features break our timeline, unresolved issues is our wild card

Markus: I don't see this as problematic, politically or technically, W3C first public WD very often have such unresolved issues listed

Markus: we will be creating an editors group sometime mid-summer, most active period will be Sep (assume), Aug (end) we need to have change proposals finalized (step 2 of subgroups). End of July we need to have requirements finalized

Markus: subgroups need to submit earlier to the whole WG in order to have finalized by end of July. I think for some groups a week before end of July may work, for others it won't

Markus: So 1 week before end of July is the general milestone for requirements, 1 week before end of Aug for solution proposals. Since there will be cross-group coordination it's not like 200 requirements will appear from nowhere at the end of July

Makoto: since EGLS subgroup will meet Aug 3-4 it is possible to revise req doc in meeting

Markus: yes, don't let the generalized timeline cut off that obvious possibility

Makoto: in two months someone may want to say EGLS group may introduce new features, should I say "too late for 2.1"?

Markus: of course there needs to be a feature-freeze deadline which probably needs to be global (for all subgroups). Not sure when this, nor whether before first public WD or somewhere between then and next iteration release

Neil: seems wrong for public to be able to make comments, maybe even change reqs, and not WG, so I would think reqs/proposals should be somewhat fluid until after 1st pub WD and comments

Markus: right

Markus: tentatively, feature freeze is likely to happen in Oct. Of course we may have feature requests we decide to decline

Makoto: reasonable

Markus: logistics - most will likely use Skype, you can use this telecom so long as announce first to list to ensure no collisions. We can create dedicated lists and prefixes in subject header, e.g. navigation subgroup could use [navigation](navigation.md) in subject line

Markus: my inclination is to use main list

BillM: +1

KennyJ: +1

Markus: there are so many interdependencies and risk of isolation, but we can be very strict about use of subject convention

Makoto: is it possible to put 2 subgroup names in the title

KeithF: +1; It is better to develop techniques to filter volume than run the risk of missing interesting discussions

Markus: that would be a clever way to help tie together things that relate to multiple subgroups

Brady: easier to drop that and go to other strategy if it doesn't work

Makoto: which name shall we use?

Makoto: page name of subgroup?

Markus: we'll decide offline on exact symbols to use

Markus: Gregory has created IRC groups listed that we can use for subgroup meetings, anyone can join

## Requirements (from subgroups) ##

Markus: requirements example, see agenda/wiki

Markus: note each has a unique name, that's proven helpful

Markus: that's roughly how it would look in case of navigation

Brady: seems we have a hodgepodge listing of Wiki editors, I'm getting emails/comments, are we going to formalize that everyone in WG has edit access to Wiki?

Markus: yes, we need Google IDs

Brady: we're going to do lots of work on the Wiki so everyone needs it

### Subgroup Status Reports ###

#### Annotations ####

Will: put in mission based on prior email, with scenarios, terms (for annotations)

Will: in pretty good shape, concall early next week, 14 people signed up, with active participation we are pretty well on our way

Markus: scenarios = use cases?

Will: Y

#### EGLS ####

Markus: you can present final reqs in two groups, minimal + extended

Makoto: created wiki page, shows 12 members, +1 from EZRead, and I know some other members plan to join, we will probably have > 20

Makoto: Koreans have not joined IDPF yet?

George: don't know, but if intent is to join but waiting for paperwork, I would say go ahead and allow them as Invited Experts, as long as they are committed to joining

Makoto: OK, will do for Phoenix (Taiwan) as well

Markus: OK

Makoto: F2F Aug 2-4 in Sapporo

Makoto: call for participation early next week

Markus: note to other subgroups, default mode is virtual, physical F2F considered a "luxury" for the few ;-)

Makoto: we'll have some problem in phone conferences due to lack of English / common language, F2F and IRC may work better

Markus: right

#### Metadata ####

BillK: minimal progress since F2F, I was traveling, if anyone else wants to coordinate please volunteer. I will not leave group in lurch but I haven't set up Wiki,

recruited subgroup, etc. yet

BillK: we've said it was important to collect reqs from BISG, Editeur, BIC, NISO, etc. Should I consider inviting reps as Invited Experts to the subgroups?

George: with our accelerated timeframe it'd be great to get their input ASAP

BillK: my instinct as well, since getting their input after WD would extend the process

#### Navigation ####

Markus: navigation set up, only 2 people so far so please consider participating, let us know.

#### Text content ####

Markus: text content, same thing, group is growing we have scope & mission set to include extensibility patterns apart from defining next-gen grammar we will also deal

with extensibility requirements

#### Styling & layout ####

Brady: styling & layout, haven't yet gotten started but have 15 people on the list despite not requesting participation yet

Brady: to get into group just get Wiki access and put your name on the list, don't email me or comment

Brady: plan to do most of this over IRC, email, and/or Wiki, not conference calls

#### Rich Media ####

Ric W: similar to Brady's status

#### Interactivity ####

Markus: interactivity - Peter is traveling

LeslieH: use case of synching audio books with eBooks, what role will have IDPF in telling us how to tag that content (para?)?

Michael: B&N interested in that feature

Rhyse: we have custom solution for synching audio/text and would like to move to standard

Markus: charter does allow us to integrate this feature into epub-next, two lightning talks that talked about it,

BillK: under navigation?

Markus: more under navigation

RicW: may need to create another subgroup, but let's leave it in rich media for now

RicW: may relate to how to fold DAISY into EPUB as a whole

Markus: yes

Markus: prev was more under "rich media" not navigation

#### Advertising ####

Markus: ads? DianneK here?

RogerS: I have communicated with her urging her, but she indicated she's unable to

George: she's looking at advanced features of dynamic generation & updating of ads but there's also the basic ads that may ship with pubs, maybe dynamic would come

later on, maybe in another revision

George: but we do need a coordinator

Markus: volunteer?

Markus: this creates a huge risk, we can leave it open but not forever, it's a tight schedule, if we want to get it right the work needs to start basically tomorrow

Ben: recognizing that not everyone is on call, perhaps a call to the email list?

Bill: +1

Markus: absolutely

Will: ad wiki page already set up, 2 people have signed up, Will and RogerS, but both in non-coordinator roles

### Other Business, Minutes from Prior Meeting ###

Markus: if anyone here is not a member of IDPF then please start to consider joining

DaveM, Apple: we are still working on paperwork

Murata: EGLS F2F will be held in Sapporo from 8/3 to 8/4.  The meeting location is Sapporo Convention Center.

Markus: pretend it's the beginning of the minutes

Bill: please change minutes yourself if you have objections/additions/changes, before the next con call

Markus: OK minutes from last con call are accepted, F2F minutes still draft

Markus: note model for action items presenting in agenda, they are struck out = done

Markus: only last action carried over

Markus: next week call same day/time (Thurs) pending finalization of doodle poll results

Markus: main business for next week is subgroup status reports

(meeting concludes)