recording: 100929

### Attendees ###
Markus, Bill Kasdorf, Mike Smith (IDPF), Peter, James Pritchett, Keith, Adam Witwer, ChoChin, kenny\_j, wen-hsuan, George, gc, Mei-li, Garth, Brady, Daniel Weck, Dan Hughes, Si-Wei, Dave Makower, liza, karenbroome, DaveGunn, KingWai, ShuTanabe, Ryoji\_Akimoto, marisa\_demeglio, Kyoji

### Prev Action Item Review ###

George: CSS task force - no updates

Markus/George: CSS task force goal is to maximize use of CSS3. Is it also to provide feedback to W3C?

George: CSS3 task force: Re-use where what is there now, inform on what we need...

Action Item: George to review W3C CSS3 attendees to F2F

### October F2F ###

Action Item: RSVP for F2F dinner if attending

[James\_Pritchett](James_Pritchett.md) DAISY people staying at Serrano San Francisco -- www.serranohotel.com

F2F sub-group planning discussion - Adobe location; 2 rooms - possible Sony location TBD

Cross-over between groups and\or people

Styling-layout/EGLS/Interactivity merge for F2F

Metadata/Nav/Annotations merge for F2F

breakout groups in F2F are larger than subgroups

Action Item: Markus to detail F2F agenda

Markus: For F2F: As much implementation proposals as possible

[mikeidpf](mikeidpf.md) EPUB 2.1 WG e-mail archives http://groups.google.com/group/epub-21-working-group

Markus: Chairs: push for proposals

Markus: known risk: no implementation proposal = not in spec

### Sub group reports ###

**Annotations:** Daniel Weck. Few contribs, Will and Daniel. Some proposals, no proofs-of concept. doing good.

Daniel Weck: Some overlap with metadata

**EGLS:** no update

**Metadata:** Bill: moving forward, proposals being developed. Prep for F2F looking good

**Navigation:** George: not a lot of progress. Issue re: alt nav/paging

Peter: if content creators not publishing it (paged  breaks) not a huge issue to concern us

George: concern: referencing P vs. E. Two sets of page #'s.

George: NCX restricts to one set of page refs

George: what is need for page lists?

[keith\_fahlgren](keith_fahlgren.md) Exactly

**Text Content:** Markus: Examples of dictionary/glossary vocabs

OLIF TEI, others

Hope to demo grammar for dict. glossary format at F2F

Neil working on MathML (mem MathML WG)

Markus: Subsetting in 3.0

Markus: Prev version expressed subset, where are we going next

**Styling/Layout:** Brady: some items posted to wiki

**Rich Media:** Peter: Sent email for implementation proposals

Peter: Many requirements

Peter: If no proposals will have to wait for next rev

markus: Scripting issues: postponed 1 week

markus: OCF: Superceded/deprecated specs referenced from OCF

markus: upgrading or new/and or sibling specs for OCF 3

markus: James Pritchett is reviewing OCF spec refs, not adding new functions so bringing OCF 3 "up-to-code" not overly problematic

Encryption.xml: Used by reading systems?

Is Metadata or Signatures.xml?

[keith\_fahlgren](keith_fahlgren.md) perhaps http://code.google.com/p/epubcheck/source/detail?r=121 ?

Dave Makower: Apple using signatures.xml

Action Items: Dave & Peter: signature.xml

Discussion: SNL\_R1.5 [SolutionSNLR1\_5](SolutionSNLR1_5.md)

Brady: email to list Req 1.5 use cases

re: use cases - font size changes & 'night mode'

Brady & Peter: discussion re: relative fonts sizes

Peter: relation between font size (em) and viewport

Brady: pixels vs em's (cites browser implementations)

Night Mode: What level of control does author have?

Reading systems implement night mode, not documents.

How would night mode styling be declared by author?

Some reliance on stylesheets, some styling countermands night mode styling (light-on-dark)

Peter: doesn't matter how 'night mode' implemented' only that it is.

Peter: 'negotiation' needed between content and rendering engine. How can video be in night mode?

Action Item: Brady to concoct more use cases