## WebAppSec WG

Tuesday, December 15th: 19:00 UTC (11:00 California, 14:00 Boston, 19:00
London, 20:00 Berlin)
https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20201215T1900

##### Attendees

* Sam Weiler (W3C/MIT)
* Dan Veditz
* Ian Clelland (Google)
* Giorgio Maone
* Wendy Seltzer
* Mike West
* Jun Kokatsu


### Agenda

Charter renewal

The charter for the Web Application Security WG expires in March 2021. We'd like to reach agreement on the contents and scope of work so we can send it out for formal approval in January.

Here's a first-take based on our current charter (thanks, Sam!) to start the discussion. Feel free to comment in the document itself.

https://docs.google.com/document/d/1uF1L6YEdB6EMqnH-9jraCrlfNsG9LMR0b7Pch8cbD5E/edit#heading=h.zcxuptgopico


## Chartering

Mike: Maybe Wendy or Sam can chat briefly about why the charter matters, and what we're doing when rechartering?

Wendy: THe charter is where we set out the scope of a group and for membership to review to make sure they are comfortable making patent committments to the scope of work described. As groups look at a charter we walk the line between "let's include everything we want to work on" and "don't include so much that we scare away companies from committing to something too open ended"

mike: thank you. in my mind the scope is the most important thing. The current doc is linked from the minutes. the scope we have is relatively broad. Helpfully points to things we've done, things we're working on, and things we'd like to do but aren't really working on. Things are broken up into 5 groups. Vulnerability Mitigation; Attack Surface Reduction; Secure Mashups; Manageability; The Web Security Model




...: There are things we currently aren't working on and maybe we should cut some of them. From Google's POV we would commit to the scope thisharter. It's all things we think are important. My goal is not to reduce the scope (or increase it) but rather to focus attention on the things we are actually working on and investing effort today.

...: attack surface reduction and mitigation both seem very important and related. What attack surfaces do we care about, which are our responsibility to mitigate? From Chrome POV 2 things -- injection attacks and isolation.  injection attacks are covered by things likd CSP. the other kind of attacks are isolation attacks, generally side-channels where sites reveal information to another through timing attacks and similar. A couple of proposals in this group seem relevant, such as "isolate-me" started by Emily Stark, and @@ that moved to WICG. 

...: secure mash-ups. interesting ideas like UI redress that Brad Hill was keen on, and COWL, but we're not actively working on these things.

...: manageability, another aspect of attack surface reduction. 

...: e.g., reducing attack surface by restricting geolocation to secure context, 

...:...: credential management is the next bullet. Seems important and other groups can work on it, like WebAuthn. We're not working on it at the moment. There's something going on in WebID and it mgiht be nice if that could land in our group eventually. Authentication seems like a separate bucket.

...: third bullet was added to carve out space for the permissions API, which is good, but somewhat tangential to the rest of the work we've been doing.

wendy: other things we can use charter for is shared prioritization. communicate to the web community what we think are most important, and things we aren't working on because there may be a better place for them.  In our role as team contact we're happy to think about "who else should be participating here" and vet those ideas with the community "would this entice you to participate?". Find out what would bring them in or scare them off.

mike: people on this call aren't super positioned to know what people not on the call would be interested in. The core I'm interested in is an understanding of what developers who aren't paying attention to this stuff actually care about. There are a couple of surveys that went around earlier this year that can give us some insight (the MDN survey that went around from Mozilla and Google). The feedback this group has gotten has been from places like Google and Facebook, which have a certain POV of scale. We've gotten feedback from others that the specs we produce have been overtuned to the concerns of such large scale enterprises.

...: last section, Web Security Model. This group is well positioned to define that. What is the threat model on the web today? We could pull in folks from academia and industry and present a document that describes categories of threats and the available defenses. We have a lot of those types of things in pieces, like XS-leaks and @@. Such a document would be useful and have impact. In the W3C would give the TAG something to point at when considering new specs. Would give industry a document listing canonical things they ought to care about.

...: in my mind the scope of the charter is fine. If we need to trim stuff there's a couple of low hanging fruit we could trim. If we don't have to it seems perfectly fine. Maybe refine the wording to point at the things we think are important and will be invested in vs. other things we define as problems but aren't currently investing in.

...: given the audience on the call [ed note: very small] we should take this back async and rework the document aesthetically. It has the content we're interested in but give a different editorial spin and focus.

wendy: I don't expect this group to tell me that concerns of people NOT in this group. I'll talk to Dom, who is W3C's community relations lead, to ask where else should we be looking to hear from developers. If you have Dev Rel teams that could help with that outreach or defining particular questions that would be helpful, not as part of the charter specifically but more broadly.

Dan: I'm happy with the scope of the charter, and like the idea of editing while keeping the topics the same.

Mike: back to list; chairs will create a concrete proposal to list in ~2 weeks, discuss in new year.

...: Dan and I should put something together and get something out

Mike: aim to have this done by next mtg on 19 Janaury. - to have a draft we think is done and ask list for objections.

