## WebAppSec WG - 2021-11-16

### Attendees

* Sam Weiler, W3C/MIT
* Jun Kokatsu
* Abdulrahman Alqabandi
* Edward Qiu
* Wendy Seltzer, W3C
* Francis McCabe
* Mike West
* Dan Veditz
* Giorgio Maone
* Mike Smith, W3C
* Paris
* Geoff Garen, Apple
* Jeff Hodges

[minutes of the previous meeting](https://github.com/w3c/webappsec/blob/main/meetings/2021/2021-10-19-minutes.md)

### Agenda

*   [@shhnjk](https://github.com/shhnjk): Is there any way to centralize wiki for security mitigation deployment tips?

*   Recapping last week's XS Leaks summit:

    *   Lukas Knittel presented "[xsinator.com](https://xsinator.com)" ([slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1SIsJC5ZgW6GyQLQmYPIv5Caa3ZWlL1Q7bT9Nh4-T074))
    *   Jan GÃ³ra presented "XS-Search via three unaddressed XS-Leaks" ([slides](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1G8_7wnb34LCgeUn6ymAnb6QIPLLH1MFA/view))
    *   Luan Herrera presented "revisiting g(old) xsleaks" ([slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/179v-3Cm3kejypDi1Eu7og0kkBJa1BW4S4_vBN7ZzXSw/edit?usp=sharing))
    *   Youssef Sammouda presented "scroll to text fragment attacks" ([slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/103idd_T15ygLNCE9EE4nzwaOLe93aiqPwMVefrdLeQk/))
    *   Artur Janc presented "remaining :visited attacks" ([slides](https://arturjanc.com/visited-delenda-est.pdf))
    *   [Firefox updates](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/148L33DavP0nM3k74n2qupv2iwtF9OZO4h63NWwM-5wg/edit#slide=id.g1011931361c_0_0)
    *   [Chrome updates](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1Q4OIrCcDLtw2zsMwJTR1F2d3Y0si8sSI-pb82NxfPls/edit?usp=sharing)
    *   Brave updates
    *   [Deploying XS-Leaks protections at Google](https://daviddworken.com/xs-leaks-rollouts-at-google.pdf)
    *   [Deploying XS-Leaks protections at Facebook](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1isQJzKsS5k1TYAiOFSHg_0Q9yEyp2DC6/view?usp=sharing)
 
### Minutes

#### XS-Leak mitigation browser status updates
Mike: good conversations last week in cross site leaks summit.  Help us understand gaps.  I encourage skimming through presentations linked here.  I propose to recap browser work; Dan, me, and Geoff. I recommend you look at Google and FB presentations re: developer challenges rolling these out at scale.  

Dan: 

https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/148L33DavP0nM3k74n2qupv2iwtF9OZO4h63NWwM-5wg/edit#slide=id.g1011931361c_0_0

We shipped COEP&COOP, implemented sec-fetch-* request headers - it's in release but only to 25-50% of people.  Network state partitioning...  Changed referred policy to strict-origin-when-cross-origin.  Blog post re: total cookie protection - not default yet, people can turn it on.  It breaks some sites.  Storage Access API is necessary, esp. for OAUTH sites.  SameSite=Lax has been default - on deve builds for a year, trying to make it shippable.  We have to fix a bunch of tests; hoping to ship by early Jan.  Trim referrer header, nevermind policy requested.  Store blobs are partitioned.  Implemented ORB.  In planning: requestStorageAccess() is now jsut cookies and needs to expand.  Not implemented yet COEP: credentialless, query stripping, further partitioning.  Many features are on in Nightly.  

Mike: 

https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1Q4OIrCcDLtw2zsMwJTR1F2d3Y0si8sSI-pb82NxfPls/edit?usp=sharing

Chrome has shipped most of what Dan pointed to.  Have some things re: deployment problems.  Have heard from devs that cross-site isolation was a pain for devs of existing apps.  New apps could be built in a way that worked.  Legacy apps have a challenge.  Work has focused on pain to devs in deployment.   COEP: credentialless is shipping today; please play with it - seemes to work for Google Earth.  Doesn't deal w/ frames.  Anonymous iframes might be a way to do that.  Many interesting workflows, esp. authentication and payments, require pop-ups.  Today a cross-origin isolated page can't communicate w/ a pop-up.  Working in that direction, maybe by changing COOP.  Shipped reporting for COOP and COEP; devs think it's critical.  Private network access tries to protect intranet from Internet - hoping to make progress in 2022 - implementation of a secure context restriction has shipped.   Some ideas for more isolation by default - origin keyed agent clustering - get rid of document.domain.  Want COOP enabled by default; collecting data.  Good alignment with FF.

Geoff: COOP and COEP are pretty complete in implementation - in tech preview.  A reporting issue.  Very interested in techs to help devs keep data isolated.  Many sites try to prohibit embedding in an iframe - might be well served by prohibiting having an opener.  Isolation becomes easier, eso. on lower powered devices. I had hoped COOP or COEP default could change.  I see value there; most interest in headers is from people who want to turn on features restricted by headers.

Mike: I was happy to see progress on COEP and COOP.  

Geoff: life is hard for devs w/ version checking, but we're on a good path.

Mike:: How should be engage on ancillary work now that devs are playing w/ this?  Pull people in re: what lands in HTML, e.g. COEP credentialless.  

Geoff: that's reasonable. Chris prefers GH issues; track in GH and CC him.  If we need synchrnous conversation, we can, but they're more challenging to schedule.

Jun: Is WebKit working on Site Isolation?

Geoff: Initial implementation. COOP/COEP was an offshoot from that work. Not turned on in STP, not available yet.

----
#### centralized wiki for security mitigation deployment tips?

Jun: XSLeaks summit: Facebook and Google working on deployments, having the same issues. Internal wiki in both companies, both explaining reporting, both creating documentation and deployment advice. In Edge, we have a similar thing: Trusted Types advice for trusted pages. Similar in Chromium, etc. Difficult for people who are "normal" developers trying to do the right thing, deploying CSP, deploying mitigations. Is there a place, GitHub, etc. where we could host a wiki for the mitigations we've implemented. Explain how to deploy, problems, gathered in one place, intractive discussion over issues and updates.

mikesmith: Totally possible. I've done it with other repos and projects. Has appealing properties: closer to where people are looking for the information rather than going somewhere else. All on GitHub. The GitHub wiki works well, just a repo, works with existing workflows. If others want to work on this, I'd be willing to spend time on it too. Has limitiations of markdown vs HTML. Forces you to focus on the information content rather than formatting. Good idea, I'd like to help.

Jun: In previous meetings, there was a CSP presentation; Stack Overflow suggests a list, they take it. When we reach out to developers, we don't share deployment advice. That's missing in the W3C.

mikesmith: I read every single Stack Overflow question posted with a CSP tag. I have pretty good knowledge of the pain points. There's a regular contributor there who answers many questions, could get them involved. Mine stack overflow for common problems, organize information around those. 

dveditz: Envisioning a wiki next to each spec? Or a centralized WebAppSec wiki?

jun: Centralized. "This is the one place I need to go." sounds better. Either way works, but that seems better.

FrancisMcCabe: "Mining stack overflow", copyright questions?

Wendy: I heard Mike talking about finding interest areas from stack overflow, not directly lifting the text.

mikesmith: Yes, identifying problem areas. But, concretely, one contributor could contribute their content to our wiki. Anyway, to the question of location: the specs in WebAppSec are distinct, and developers don't care whether the spec comes from one working group or many. Our convinience shouldn't be the first consideration.

...: CSP has had successful developer adoption. Piling everything in one place with CSP might be confusing, but it might also be educational if they're looking for CSP information? 

jun: Initial idea might be different directories for specific features, but centralized wiki. Separating discussion for distinct features seems valuable. Also, not everything falls into WebAppSec. HTML spec! SameSite cookies! Etc!

dveditz: MDN?

jun: Sure, good idea. I just want one place.

mikesmith: MDN would likely accept this content if folks show up and want to create it. Could do it that way, but want to have folks committed to maintaining the content. Primarily a reference tool, guide section is not well-organized. we should organize things into problem/solution formats. "How do I block my web application from making requests to certain sites." is a common question. They don't know what solution to look for, they have a problem. If we want to help, put thought into a problem-based organization.

Wendy: Good question here: how can we help developers understand and solve problems? I'd like us to help answer that question, either by pointing to resources elsewhere, or offering a home at W3C for gathering information. Maintenance is important. W3C folks could help.

jun: What I want to see are things like, COEP, getting feedback that deployment is hard, and then pushing out to `credentialless`. Want that to be more centralized, seen by more people, more background available.

...: For the wiki, we can have an FAQ section, but probably don't want to create a solution for each question, whether it fits in CSP or not. Need to find a balance between the specs and the questions.

...: We're good at restricting developers (samesite=lax, etc), bad 

mkwst: "if you build it they will come" is not true -- need good content first, worry about where to put it later.

ddworken: We do have a wiki at Google. There's a lot that could be worth explosing externally. But, a lot of interal docs are internal-facing, describe not "How to do Trusted Types", but "How to do Trusted Types with Google's libraries and frameworks." The parts that are more generally applicable could and should be shared.

mikesmith: There's a WebAppSec wiki already: https://github.com/w3c/webappsec/wiki Let's start there.

Edward: On the Facebook side, we also have an internal wiki. Can ask about sharing that. Won't be able to generalize internal tooling easily, but I'd also like to help out with information.

...: Internally, we keep track of which browser versions support which mitigations. Would be good to have a centralized place for deployments.

jun: We can validate against MDN before publishing,.
