# WebAppSec WG

## Attendees

* Brad Hill
* Dan Veditz
* Frederik Braun
* Giorgio Maone
* Ian Clelland
* Jeff Hodges
* Mike Pennisi
* Mike West
* Sam Weiler
* Wendy Seltzer
* Yifan Luo
* Artur Janc
* Erhard
* Antonio Sartori
* Mike Smith
* Abdulrahman Alqabandi
* Jun Kokatsu

## Agenda

*   Charter
    *   Brief update on current status.
    *   Work mode for drafts vs living specs (WHATWG has a [nice example](https://whatwg.org/working-mode#changes)).

*   [WebCrypto](https://w3c.github.io/webcrypto/)
    *   Interest in well-scoped additions (e.g. [ed25519](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/466), [UUID](https://github.com/WICG/uuid)). Is this document something we should adopt into this group?

*   [Permissions API](https://w3c.github.io/permissions/)
    *   Can this move forward? Substantive changes have been few and far between.
    *   See also, the living spec work mode discussion above.

*   Odds and ends to note:
    *   Policy Container: https://github.com/whatwg/html/pull/6504
    *   Credentiallessness: https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/582
    *   Cross-origin Isolation deployment challenges: https://github.com/whatwg/html/issues/6364 (actual topic?)

## Minutes

### Charter

wseltzer: Question from W3C management team: how can we convey the status of work if we're not trying to move things forward to REC. We extended the charter for another 3 months to keep the group running, preparing next round. Scope looked reasonable to send to the AC. "Do we really mean we're never going to take things to REC?" If that's what we mean, let's explain it so that folks know where to look for the latest in security specs.

...: What does that mean for docs that supersede something that hit REC. Periodic snapshots, a la WHATWG HTML and Fetch? What makes sense for community, including developers and browser implementers.

mkwst: What's the range of acceptable answers to those questions?

wseltzer: Provided we can explain ourselves, I think we have wide latitude. Range of audiences: folks who want stable snapshots built into hardware on the one hand, folks who want whatever's up to date on the other.

mkwst: my sense is that living specs most closely reflect the way browser vendors see the world. [...] Is there another group that has successfully switched to a living model and satisfied those distinct audiences?

wseltzer: W3C and WHATWG have a partnership around HTML and DOM. Snapshot publication model. Just published the first "snapshotted" HTML REC. Other groups going through the same question; only recently changed the process to enable CR snapshots that match a more living model.

mkwst: I ask because I don't think we need to tread new ground. Specs that aren't locked in amber is more useful to me as a developer and it's good for us to switch to that model, but I want to do so in a way that makes the W3C audiences happy. If the snapshot model makes those people happy we can do that but I see little benefit to that model.

sam: Question that stood out to me is one around explaining to developers what they should be using. If we can answer that, we're good.

mkwst: [Is this about what people see when they go to the URL  "CSP" as an example]?

sam: I'm hearing questions relative to guidance to developers rather than URLs to the specs.

wseltzer: That sounds right. Approach guidance to developers through CanIUse labeling in specs, indications around what's implemented where, etc. Other thing I hear from some folks looking for the recommendation package, collection of things we recommend together.

mkwst: I'm asking because we'd address those in different ways depending on what the real question is. We published a Spectre document which tells developers "what they ought to do" which is more directly useful than the dry language of spectre mitigations specifications. ... What a defveloper cares about is "what is supported in the majority of browsers that visit their sites?" and "why should I care about this feature?" Those can be answered outside actual specifications. What is the smallest thing we can do that will make the AC happy?           

wseltzer: Not going to speak for the AC, but I'm hearing at least from you that we should advocate for as little process as necessary to move things forward. We need process to obtain consensus, hash out differences of opinion, etc. Doesn't need to be coupled with the heavyweight process of publishing a REC.

dveditz: The WHATWG model works such that there's consensus among browser vendors actively working on the spec. Here, there's a small group of people building these things, then a larger membership of the group that likely pays more attention to these things when we put up a call for consensus.

wseltzer: Important principle of W3C that the web listen to all its constituencies. Users, developers, implementers, all important. Perhaps need to more explicitly call for issues from outside, use the wide review process. Available at any time, not just REC.

mkwst: I would appreciate some advice on what kinds of things we can put into the charter that will satisfy the questions we are getting from W3C leadership.

...: if we switch to a living model it's important to determine how we decide what changes should land. I think the core of the WHATWG model [linked in the agenda](https://whatwg.org/working-mode#changes) is a good model. making sure we have tests, making sure we have implementer consensus, that issues and decisions are documented. 

[Current 2021 draft charter](https://w3c.github.io/webappsec/admin/webappsec-charter-2021.html)  [Issues](https://github.com/w3c/webappsec/issues)

dveditz: [Chair hat off]: Mozilla is perfectly happy working in the WHATWG model.

hillbrad: We default to the ground truth of what works in browsers. The snapshot model or the living model is fine.


## Web Crypto

mkwst: 2 proposals for updating webcrypto. The WebCrypto API spec is not in-scope of any working group at the moment, so there's no venue to get reasonable ideas into the spec. 

...: 2 options. One, a group like WebAppSec picks up the work and updates the Rec; or WebApps; or we just live with the current monkey-patching model. Would be nice to figure out a way to update the spec reasonably. 

...: think it's probably reasonable to adopt the draft in this group, with modest update to scope. A bit concerned about bringing up older discussions that were controversial then and still seem so. 

...: Would it be reasonable for us to pick up tightly-scoped updates? or should we punt? 

dveditz: If we add to charter, could we scope to "consider these two proposals"?

weiler: and errata. I don't see why we couldn't scope it. I'm not familiar with the past fights, so I don't share Mike's intuitive fear here.

dveditz: One was around a non-footgun simple crypto vs all the bells and whistles.

weiler: Whether to protect folks from footguns?

dveditz: Yes.

mike smith: It's possible to do anything in the charter regarding scope. In this case, it might be useful to explicitly mention the goals. Leave it open-ended enough to say "We could do these other things...". In this case, that's a good idea because of the controversy around some of the old issues. Want to make things easy for the editor.  Their responsibility to manage issue discussions, and close some out as issues we're not going to take on. If the charter is explicit, the editor has something to point to.

mkwst: Ask the potential editor to write down what they'd like to change?

mike smith: I think there's alignment. Could post something to the list about what they're working on after we make the decision about bringing the editor on.

mkwst: to solve chicken-and-egg, we could put into WICG, work with proposed changes there, and then see if that matches where this group wants to go. That could give us enough info then to bring the work into the group. 

mike smith: I like this plan. Don't really even need to fork it. In the past, I've just transferred the whole repo into WICG. Then, later, we could move it back. That preserves the issues list as-is.

mkwst: sounds fine from my perspective. Likely meets the bar for implementer interest, given implementations that already exist behind flags. 

mike smith: Real barrier here is implementer interest. Can't put something in the spec until there's interest; it's been a while, folks have left the project, etc.

mkwst: if you can live with that plan, let's run with it.

## Permissions API

mkwst: Permissions API, basically done, shipping in a number of browsers, and hasn't changed in a while. Recent additions are around set of permission labels (registry). Seems like a good candidate to shift to model beyond WD. Is it reasonable for us to shift to living spec mode? 

...: most recent changes are not implementation-related. Tests in WPT, failing tests shouldn't be in WPT because they're testing types that aren't supported. Relatively good coverage between chromium and gecko. 

...: What do we do with a spec like this that has one moving part, basically a registry. Think there was conversation around W3C registry model. 

wseltzer: Next rev of the process has a registry track. Could pull that section of the spec out, and update with less overhead.

mkwest: Sounds good. Next step to ask folks who aren't on this call. 

dveditz: WebApps is potentially rechartering soon. Since the spec editor is a co-chair in that group, and we only picked it up because webapps didn't pick it up, perhaps they should.

weiler: WebApps charter might already be in review?

mike smith: I don't think it has. Talked with PLH (W3C Project Mgr) recently, asked about webcrypto as well.

wseltzer: no, it hasn't

iclelland: I've had my eye on changes to the permissions spec for a while. Seeing what we can do to merge permission policy with that document. Might involve some substantial changes. Perhaps might not be as frozen as it currently looks.

dveditz: Might be a reasonable reason to keep in in this group.

Mike Pennisi: Permissions API: test coverage. There are some tests that aren't organized under the permissions directory; webdriver integration for instance. I'm sharing a more complete accounting of test coverage, particularly as it relates to interoperability (Firefox does not implement the "automation" section).

mkwst: I wasn't saying we have complete test coverage; the tests we have are passing. 

...: Ian, if there are changes you want to make re: integration between Permissions API and Permissions Policy, please share a write-up.

iclelland: I will

mkwst: don't think that implicates charter, but would help clarify the work. 

## Odds and Ends

### COI Deployment Challenges

mkwst: https://github.com/whatwg/html/issues/6364

...: this issue describes a couple challenges  chrome has seen and heard from devs trying to roll out recommended mechanisms, coop, coep. Points to other issues with more concrete proposals. What we could change for easier deployment at scale. 

https://github.com/whatwg/html/issues/6364#issuecomment-785713151
...: proposals ^ and comments following
...: things like OAuth, and dependencies a dev doesn't have control over, e.g. Google Earth with historical user-generated content that's a challenge for opt-in
...: issues #6177, #6178

hillbrad: Vanilla cross-origin scenarios are interesting. There was some concern about Facebook doing weird things (`document.domain`, etc), but that shouldn't be the case today. Lots of things on the web depend on being able to communicate across origins. COOP breaks that today. It would be nice to be able to maintain those popup patterns while protecting developers from Spectre, et al.

mkwst: one of the concrete proposals, change same-origin-allow-popups keyword. 
...: take a look at the github conversation, concrete feedback on constraints to deployment of COOP
...: We'd like to let devs isolate their sites while continuing to authenticate, use payments.

mkwst: please take a look at [Policy Container](https://github.com/whatwg/html/pull/6504) and [Credentiallessness](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/582)


## Queue

* Where did we land on (our preferences for) Permissions API moving to WebApps? landed toward keep it in WebAppSec, I think. (WS) [dveditz: that was the tentative conclusion when Ian said he had change proposals related to Permission-Policy, which we DO own. But we wanted to see what kind of proposed changes]
