# TPAC Web Components meeting - 19 September 2016

This meeting will take place on 19 September 2016 as part of [TPAC 2016](https://www.w3.org/2016/09/TPAC/)

## minutes
[Minutes from the 19 September 2016 TPAC Web Components meeting](https://www.w3.org/2016/09/19-webapps-minutes.html).

## Expected attendees

Please add your name by [editing a branch and making a pull request](https://github.com/w3c/WebPlatformWG/edit/gh-pages/meetings/16-09-19TPAC-1.md) or sending mail to the WebPlatform chairs and asking them to do it for you.

### Will attend

* Hayato Ito (Google)
* Takayoshi Kochi (Google)
* Chaals (Yandex)
* Léonie Watson (TPG)
* Dominic Cooney (Google)
* Kris Borchers (jQuery Foundation)
* Domenic Denicola (Google)
* Olli Pettay - Smaug (Mozilla)
* Tomek Wytrębowicz (Starcounter, observer)

### Hope to attend

* Jeff Hodges (PayPal, observer, in the mid-to-late afternoon)

## Agenda

### Intro / Agenda bash - What issues make sense today?
### Accessibility: 11am?
* [Web Component ARIA Issue 552](https://github.com/w3c/webcomponents/issues/552)
* [Web Component and Extensibility Issue 553](https://github.com/w3c/webcomponents/issues/553)
* Tab index and ARIA role (existing role, not extensibility) for custom elements (see below.)

Dominic (Google): `<button>` produces something that is focusable and has an ARIA role (button). If component authors want to make things focusable/have roles, they need to use attributes: `<my-widget tabindex="0" role="button">`. Experience from three years building web components at Google has shown that relying on attributes is problematic for a few reasons I'll share. I propose we add a couple of options to customElements.define for the default tabindex and ARIA role of custom elements.

## Agenda Candidates
### HTML Modules (as the successor of HTML Imports):
* Dominic (Google) proposed a use case and requirements in [HTML Imports and ES Modules.](https://github.com/w3c/webcomponents/blob/gh-pages/proposals/HTML-Imports-and-ES-Modules.md) TL;DR there's a use case for keeping a component's markup, style and script together in a unit that's integrated with ES module loading.
* Blink is prepared to deprecate HTML Imports for a better, interoperable solution.

### Custom Elements
- https://github.com/w3c/webcomponents/issues/468
- maybe https://github.com/w3c/webcomponents/issues/176 and https://github.com/w3c/webcomponents/issues/113
- More potential callbacks:
  - Parser set attributes. For example, Blink's implementation of input doesn't create shadow DOM until the parser has set all attributes.
  - End tag "done." Most end tag handling is parser state and tree construction management, but script does substantial processing.
  - Participate in form submission.

### Shadow DOM
#### Remaining issues for v1

- `<iframe>` and the History API
  - https://github.com/w3c/webcomponents/issues/184

#### Feature requests for v2

- Support `/deep/` (`>>>`) in CSS Static profile
  - https://github.com/w3c/webcomponents/issues/78
  - Blink will implement this feature behind a flag to know whether this feature can be justified or not.
    We need feedback from web developers.
  - Some sites which use Shadow DOM v0 have a concern about switching to Shadow DOM v1 due to the lack of the support of this feature.

- Support Custom Pseudo-elements `::part(...)`
  - https://github.com/w3c/webcomponents/issues/300
  - `@apply` and/or `::part(...)`.

- {DocumentOrShadowRoot or Slot}.activePath
  - https://github.com/w3c/webcomponents/issues/479
  - It looks a reasonable proposal because `activeElement` does not meet developer's requirements.

If someone has a strong interest on any of the following features, please let us know that.
It looks none of them is MUST-TO-DISCUSS topic. It looks there is no strong interests on any of them.

- [Optional topic] Declarative Shadow DOM
  - https://github.com/w3c/webcomponents/issues/71
  - There is no clear proposals. There is no strong interests. If someone has an interest, please add a comment on the issue.
- [Optional topic] Imperative distribution (slotting) APIs
  - https://github.com/w3c/webcomponents/issues/343
  - It looks we have lost an interest on this feature.

----

Please add your name, and agenda requests here by [editing a branch and making a Pull Request](https://github.com/w3c/WebPlatformWG/blob/gh-pages/meetings/16-09-19TPAC-1.md), or by mail to either the public-webapps mailing list or the chairs of the Web Platform group, which will result in it being posted here.

## Background reading

* [Issues list](https://github.com/w3c/webcomponents/issues/)

## Logistics

<dl>
  <dt>Date/time</dt>
  <dd>9am - 6pm, Monday 19 September 2016</dd>
  <dt>Location</dt>
  <dd>Auditorium III, First Floor, Centro de Congressos de Lisboa, Lisbon, Portugal.</dd>
<dt>IRC</dt>
  <dd>irc.w3.org, #webapps</dd>
  19/09/2016</dl>

Further information will be posted here as it becomes available.
