# Web Components meeting

[Actual agenda used (on etherpad)](https://public.etherpad-mozilla.org/p/web_components_agenda)

* [Complete Minutes, First Day](https://www.w3.org/2018/03/05-webplat-minutes.html)
  * [Open issues marked "needing consensus"](https://www.w3.org/2018/03/05-webplat-minutes.html#item04)
  * [Open issues marked "needs implementor interest](https://www.w3.org/2018/03/05-webplat-minutes.html#item05)
  * [Pseudo-classes](https://www.w3.org/2018/03/05-webplat-minutes.html#item06)
  * [Scoped Custom Element Registries](https://www.w3.org/2018/03/05-webplat-minutes.html#item07)
  * [Accessibility and AoM](https://www.w3.org/2018/03/05-webplat-minutes.html#item08)
  * [Form integration](https://www.w3.org/2018/03/05-webplat-minutes.html#item09)
* [Complete Minutes, Second Day](https://www.w3.org/2018/03/06-webplat-minutes.html)
  * [`template` instantiation](https://www.w3.org/2018/03/06-webplat-minutes.html#item01)
  * [`:part` and `:theme`](https://www.w3.org/2018/03/06-webplat-minutes.html#item02)
  * [Lightweight addition of styles](https://www.w3.org/2018/03/06-webplat-minutes.html#item04)
  * [Declarative Shadow DOM](https://www.w3.org/2018/03/06-webplat-minutes.html#item06)
  * [HTML Modules](https://www.w3.org/2018/03/06-webplat-minutes.html#item07)
  * [Declarative Custome Elements](https://www.w3.org/2018/03/06-webplat-minutes.html#item08)

## Tokyo, Japan, 5-6 March 2018

* The meeting was hosted by Google, 5 and 6 March 2018, in their offices in Roppongi, Tokyo.

## Attendees

* [Takayashi Kochi](https://github.com/TakayoshiKochi) - Google
* [Olli Pettay](https://github.com/smaug----) - Mozilla
* [Jan Miksovsky](https://github.com/JanMiksovsky) - Invited expert (Component Kitchen)
* [Ryosuke Niwa](https://github.com/rniwa) - Apple
* [Tess O'Connor](https://github.com/hober) - Apple
* [Michael[tm] Smith](https://github.com/sideshowbarker) - W3C
* [Hayato Ito](https://github.com/hayatoito) - Google
* [Tomek WytrÄ™bowicz](https://github.com/tomalec) - Invited expert
* [Patrick Kettner](https://github.com/patrickkettner) - Microsoft
* [Justin Fagnani](https://github.com/justinfagnani) - Google
* [Diego Ferreiro Val](https://github.com/diervo) - Salesforce
* [Pierre-Marie Dartus](https://github.com/pmdartus) - Salesforce
* [Eugene Kashida](https://github.com/ekashida) - Salesforce
* [Domenic Denicola](https://github.com/domenic) - Google
* [Anne van Kesteren](https://github.com/annevk) - Mozilla
* [Chris Joel](https://github.com/cdata) - Google
* [Kent Tamura](https://github.com/tkent-google) - Google
* [Fergal Daly](https://github.com/fergald) - Google
* [chaals nevile](https://github.com/chaals) - (WG co-chair)
* [Trey Shugart](https://github.com/treshugart) - Atlassian
* [Sangwhan Moon](https://github.com/cynthia) - Invited expert
* [Rob Wormald](https://github.com/robwormald) - Google (Angular)
* [Adam Bradley](https://github.com/adamdbradley) - (join remotely) ionic and stenciljs
* [Jason Miller](https://github.com/developit) - (join remotely) Google (Preact)
* [Qingqian Tao] - Baidu(MIP)
* [Zhou Shen] - Baidu(MIP)


## Agenda


The following is a draft proposal based on [discussion](https://github.com/w3c/webcomponents/issues/713) - 
feel free to request topics in that issue, or make a pull request against this page.

### Monday
* Agenda building
* Contentious bugs resolution
* [Template instantiation](https://github.com/w3c/webcomponents/blob/gh-pages/proposals/Template-Instantiation.md)
* Unconference 1

### Tuesday
* [HTML modules](https://github.com/w3c/webcomponents/issues/645)
* [Scoped Custom Element Registries](https://github.com/w3c/webcomponents/issues/716) / [Declarative Shadow DOM](https://github.com/w3c/webcomponents/blob/gh-pages/proposals/Declarative-Shadow-DOM.md) - [gh issue](https://github.com/whatwg/dom/issues/510), [discourse](https://discourse.wicg.io/t/declarative-shadow-dom/1904)
* Unconference 2
* Unconference 3

